## v22.1.0-beta.4

Release Date: April 26, 2022

{% include releases/release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v22-1-0-beta-4-backward-incompatible-changes">Backward-incompatible changes</h3>

- Users can no longer define the subdirectory of their full backup. This deprecated syntax can be enabled by changing the new `bulkio.backup.deprecated_full_backup_with_subdir` [cluster setting](../v22.1/cluster-settings.html) to `true`. [#80145][#80145]

<h3 id="v22-1-0-beta-4-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- Introduced a new [cluster setting](../v22.1/cluster-settings.html), `sql.multi_region.allow_abstractions_for_secondary_tenants.enabled`, to allow the operator to control if a secondary tenant can make use of [multi-region abstractions](../v22.1/migrate-to-multiregion-sql.html#replication-zone-patterns-and-multi-region-sql-abstractions). [#80013][#80013]
- Introduced new `cloudstorage.<provider>.write.node_rate_limit` and `cloudstorage.<provider>.write.node_burst_limit` [cluster settings](../v22.1/cluster-settings.html) to limit the rate at which bulk operations write to the designated cloud storage provider. [#80243][#80243]

<h3 id="v22-1-0-beta-4-command-line-changes">Command-line changes</h3>

- [`COPY ... FROM STDIN`](../v22.1/copy-from.html) now works from the [`cockroach` CLI](../v22.1/cockroach-commands.html). Note that it is not supported inside transactions. [#79819][#79819]
- The mechanism for query cancellation is disabled in the [`sql` shell](../v22.1/cockroach-sql.html) until a later patch release. [#79740][#79740]

<h3 id="v22-1-0-beta-4-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- Statements are no longer separated by aggregation interval on the [Statement Page](../v22.1/ui-statements-page.html). Now, all statements with the same fingerprint show as a single row. [#80137][#80137]

<h3 id="v22-1-0-beta-4-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- If a user does not pass a subdirectory in their backup command, CockroachDB will only ever attempt to create a full backup. Previously, a backup command with [`AS OF SYSTEM TIME`](../v22.1/as-of-system-time.html) and no subdirectory would increment on an existing backup if the `AS OF SYSTEM TIME` backup’s resolved subdirectory equaled the existing backup’s directory. Now, an error is thrown. [#80145][#80145]

<h3 id="v22-1-0-beta-4-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- HTTP 304 responses no longer result in error logs. [#79855][#79855]
- Fixed a bug that may have caused a panic if a Kafka server being written to by a [`changefeed`](../v22.1/changefeed-sinks.html) failed at the wrong moment. [#79908][#79908]
- Fixed a bug that would prevent CockroachDB from resolving the public schema if a [`changefeed`](../v22.1/changefeed-sinks.html) is created with a cursor timestamp prior to when the public schema migration happened. [#80165][#80165]
- Fixed a bug where running an [`AS OF SYSTEM TIME`](../v22.1/as-of-system-time.html) incremental backup with an end time earlier than the previous backup's end time could lead to an incremental backup chain in the wrong order. Now, an error is thrown if the time specified in `AS OF SYSTEM TIME` is earlier than the previous backup's end time. [#80145][#80145]

<h3 id="v22-1-0-beta-4-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- Running multiple [schema changes](../v22.1/online-schema-changes.html) concurrently is now more efficient. [#79950][#79950]
- Performing a rollback of a [`CREATE TABLE AS`](../v22.1/create-table-as.html) statement with large quantities of data has similar performance to using [`DROP TABLE`](../v22.1/drop-table.html). [#79601][#79601]

<h3 id="v22-1-0-beta-4-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 38 merged PRs by 27 authors.

[#79601]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/79601
[#79740]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/79740
[#79819]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/79819
[#79855]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/79855
[#79908]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/79908
[#79950]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/79950
[#80013]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80013
[#80137]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80137
[#80145]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80145
[#80165]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80165
[#80243]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80243
