## v22.1.0-alpha.3

Release Date: March 14, 2022

{% include releases/release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v22-1-0-alpha-3-enterprise-edition-changes">Enterprise edition changes</h3>

- Altering the sink type of a [changefeed](../v22.1/changefeed-sinks.html) is now disallowed. An attempt to change a sink type now returns an error message recommending that you create a new sink type. [#77152][#77152]
- Currently executing [schedules](../v22.1/manage-a-backup-schedule.html) are cancelled immediately when the jobs scheduler is disabled. [#77306][#77306]
- The `changefeed.backfill_pending_ranges` [Prometheus metric](../v22.1/monitoring-and-alerting.html#prometheus-endpoint) was added to track ongoing backfill progress of a changefeed. [#76995][#76995]
- Changefeeds can now be created on tables with more than one [column family](../v22.1/column-families.html). Previously, this would error. Now, we create a feed that will emit individual messages per column family. Primary key columns will appear in the key for all column families, but in the value only in the families they are in. For example, if a table foo has families `primary` containing the primary key and a string column, and `secondary` containing a different string column, you'll see two messages for an insert that will look like `0 -> {id: 0, s1: "val1"}, 0 -> {s2: "val2"}`. If an update then only affects one family, you'll see only one message (e.g., `0 -> {s2: "newval"})`. This behavior reflects CockroachDB internal treatment of column families: writes are processed and stored separately, with only the ordering and atomicity guarantees that would apply to updates to two different tables within a single transaction. Avro schema names will include the family name concatenated to the table name. If you don't specify family names in the `CREATE` or `ALTER TABLE` statement, the default family names will either be `primary` or of the form `fam_<zero-indexed family id>_<underscore-delimited list of columns>`. [#77084][#77084]

<h3 id="v22-1-0-alpha-3-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- Introduced the `crdb_internal.transaction_contention_events` virtual table, that exposes historical transaction contention events. The events exposed in the new virtual table also include transaction fingerprint IDs for both blocking and waiting transactions. This allows the new virtual table to be joined into statement statistics and transaction statistics tables. The new virtual table requires either the `VIEWACTIVITYREDACTED` or `VIEWACTIVITY` [role option](../v22.1/alter-role.html#role-options) to access. However, if the user has the `VIEWACTIVTYREDACTED` role, the contending key will be redacted. The contention events are stored in memory. The number of contention events stored is controlled via `sql.contention.event_store.capacity` [cluster setting](../v22.1/cluster-settings.html). [#76917][#76917]
- Initial implementation of a scheduled logger used to capture index usage statistics to the [telemetry logging channel](../v22.1/logging.html#telemetry). [#76886][#76886]
- Added the ability for the TTL job to generate statistics on number of rows and number of expired rows on the table. This is off by default, controllable by the `ttl_row_stats_poll_interval` [storage parameter](../v22.1/sql-grammar.html#opt_with_storage_parameter_list). [#76837][#76837]
- Return ambiguous [unary operator error](../v22.1/functions-and-operators.html#operators) for ambiguous input like `~'1'` which can be interpreted as an integer (resulting in `-2`) or a bit string (resulting in `0`). [#76943][#76943]
- [`crdb_internal.default_privileges`](../v22.1/crdb-internal.html) no longer incorrectly shows default privileges for databases where the default privilege was not actually defined. [#77255][#77255]
- You can now create core [changefeeds](../v22.1/use-changefeeds.html) on tables with more than one [column family](../v22.1/column-families.html). CockroachDB creates a feed that will emit individual messages per column family. Primary key columns will appear in the key for all column families, but in the value only in the families they are in. For example, if a table `foo` has families `primary` containing the primary key and a string column, and `secondary` containing a different string column, you'll see two messages for an insert that will look like `0 -> {id: 0, s1: "val1"}, 0 -> {s2: "val2"}`. If an update then only affects one family, you'll see only one message (e.g., 0 -> `{s2: "newval"}`). This behavior reflects CockroachDB internal treatment of column families: writes are processed and stored separately, with only the ordering and atomicity guarantees that would apply to  updates to two different tables within a single transaction. [#77084][#77084]
- A new [built-in scalar function](../v22.1/functions-and-operators.html) `crdb_internal.active_version()` can now be used alongside `crdb_internal.is_at_least_version()` to determine which cluster version is currently active and choose client-side feature levels accordingly. [#77233][#77233]
- [`IMPORT INTO with AVRO`](../v22.1/import-into.html) now supports Avro files with the following Avro types: `long.time-micros`, `int.time-millis`, `long.timestamp-micros`,`long.timestamp-millis`, and `int.date`. This feature works only if the user has created a CockroachDB table with column types with match certain Avro type:  `AVRO | CRDB <time-*> | TIME <timestamp_*> | TIMESTAMP <date> | DATE` [#76989][#76989]

<h3 id="v22-1-0-alpha-3-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- [DB Console](../v22.1/ui-overview.html) now displays locality information in [problem ranges](../v22.1/ui-debug-pages.html#reports) and [range status](../v22.1/ui-replication-dashboard.html#ranges). [#76892][#76892]
- DB Console now displays `is_leaseholder` and `lease_valid` information in problem ranges and range status pages. [#76892][#76892]
- Added the Hot Ranges page and linked to it on the sidebar. [#77330][#77330]
- Removed stray parenthesis at the end of the duration time for a successful job. [#77438][#77438]

<h3 id="v22-1-0-alpha-3-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Previously, a bug caused the Open Transaction chart in the [Metrics Page](../v22.1/ui-overview.html#metrics) to constantly increase for empty transactions. This issue has now been fixed. [#77237][#77237]
- Previously, [draining nodes](../v22.1/node-shutdown.html#draining) in a cluster without shutting them down could stall foreground traffic in the cluster. This patch fixes this bug. [#77246][#77246]

<h3 id="v22-1-0-alpha-3-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- Queries of the form `SELECT * FROM t1 WHERE filter_expression ORDER BY secondIndexColumn LIMIT n;` where there is a `NOT NULL CHECK` constraint of the form: `CHECK (firstIndexColumn IN (const_1, const_2, const_3...)` can now be rewritten as a `UNION ALL skip scan` to avoid the previously-required sort operation. [#76893][#76893]

<h3 id="v22-1-0-alpha-3-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 108 merged PRs by 51 authors.

[#74174]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/74174
[#76837]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/76837
[#76886]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/76886
[#76892]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/76892
[#76893]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/76893
[#76917]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/76917
[#76943]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/76943
[#76989]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/76989
[#76995]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/76995
[#77084]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/77084
[#77152]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/77152
[#77233]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/77233
[#77237]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/77237
[#77246]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/77246
[#77255]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/77255
[#77306]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/77306
[#77330]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/77330
[#77438]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/77438
