## v22.1.1

Release Date: June 6, 2022

{% include releases/release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v22-1-1-security-updates">Security updates</h3>

- The `crdb_internal.reset_sql_stats()` and `crdb_internal.reset_index_usage_stats()` [built-in functions](../v22.1/functions-and-operators.html#built-in-functions) now check whether the user has the [`admin` role](../v22.1/security-reference/authorization.html#admin-role). [#80278][#80278]

<h3 id="v22-1-1-general-changes">General changes</h3>

- When using Azure Storage for data operations, CockroachDB now calculates the storage account URL from the provided `AZURE_ENVIRONMENT` query parameter. If not specified, this defaults to `AzurePublicCloud` to maintain backward compatibility. This parameter should **not** be used when the cluster is in a mixed-version or upgrading state, as nodes that have not been upgraded will continue to send requests to `AzurePublicCloud` even in the presence of this parameter. [#80801][#80801]

<h3 id="v22-1-1-enterprise-edition-changes">Enterprise edition changes</h3>

- Previously, backups in the base directory of a Google Cloud Storage bucket would not be discovered by [`SHOW BACKUPS`](../v22.1/show-backup.html). These backups will now appear correctly. [#80493][#80493]
- [Changefeeds](../v22.1/change-data-capture-overview.html) to Google Cloud Platform no longer require topic creation permission if all topics being written to already exist. [#81684][#81684]

<h3 id="v22-1-1-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- `ttl_job_cron` is now displayed on [`SHOW CREATE TABLE`](../v22.1/show-create.html) and the specified `reloptions` by default. [#80292][#80292]
- Added the `crdb_internal.cluster_locks` virtual table, which exposes the current state of locks on keys tracked by concurrency control. The virtual table displays metadata on locks currently held by transactions, as well as operations waiting to obtain the locks, and as such can be used to visualize active contention. The `VIEWACTIVITY` or `VIEWACTIVITYREDACTED` [role option](../v22.1/security-reference/authorization.html#role-options), or the [`admin` role](../v22.1/security-reference/authorization.html#admin-role), is required to access the virtual table; however, if the user only has the `VIEWACTIVITYREDACTED` role option, the key on which a lock is held will be redacted. [#80517][#80517]
- [`BACKUP`](../v22.1/backup.html), [`IMPORT`](../v22.1/import.html), and [`RESTORE`](../v22.1/restore.html) jobs will be paused instead of entering a failed state if they continue to encounter transient errors once they have retried a maximum number of times. The user is responsible for cancelling or resuming the job from this state. [#80434][#80434]
- Added a `sql.conn.failures` counter metric that shows the number of failed SQL connections. [#80987][#80987]
- Constraints that only include hidden columns are no longer excluded in [`SHOW CONSTRAINTS`](../v22.1/show-constraints.html). This behavior can be changed using the `show_primary_key_constraint_on_not_visible_columns` session variable. [#80637][#80637]
- Added a `sql.txn.contended.count` metric that exposes the total number of transactions that experienced [contentions](../v22.1/transactions.html#transaction-contention). [#81070][#81070]
- Automatic statistics collection can now be enabled or disabled for individual tables, taking precedence over the `sql.stats.automatic_collection.enabled`, `sql.stats.automatic_collection.fraction_stale_rows`, or `sql.stats.automatic_collection.min_stale_rows` [cluster settings](../v22.1/cluster-settings.html). The table settings may be set at table creation time, or later via [`ALTER TABLE ... SET`](../v22.1/alter-table.html). Note that any row mutations which occurred a minute or two before disabling automatic statistics collection via `ALTER TABLE ... SET` may trigger statistics collection, but DML statements submitted after the setting change will not. [#81019][#81019]
- Added a new session variable, `enable_multiple_modifications_of_table`, which can be used instead of the cluster variable `sql.multiple_modifications_of_table.enabled` to allow statements containing multiple [`INSERT ON CONFLICT`](../v22.1/insert.html), [`UPSERT`](../v22.1/upsert.html), [`UPDATE`](../v22.1/update.html), or [`DELETE`](../v22.1/delete.html) subqueries modifying the same table. As with `sql.multiple_modifications_of_table.enabled`, be warned that with this session variable enabled, there is nothing to prevent the table corruption seen in issue [#70731](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/issues/70731) from occuring if the same row is modified multiple times by different subqueries of a single statment. It is best to rewrite these statements, but the session variable is provided as an aid if this is not possible. [#79930][#79930]
- Fixed a small typo when using `DateStyle` and `IntervalStyle`. [#81550][#81550]
- Added an `is_grantable` column to [`SHOW GRANTS FOR {role}`](../v22.1/show-grants.html) for consistency with other `SHOW GRANTS` commands. [#81820][#81820]
- Improved query performance for `crdb_internal.cluster_locks` when issued with constraints in the `WHERE` clause on `table_id`, `database_name`, or `table_name` columns. [#81261][#81261]

<h3 id="v22-1-1-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- The default value for `storage.max_sync_duration` has been lowered from `60s` to `20s`. CockroachDB will now exit sooner with a fatal error if a single slow disk operation exceeds this value. [#81496][#81496]
- The [`cockroach debug zip`](../v22.1/cockroach-debug-zip.html) and [`cockroach debug merge-logs`](../v22.1/cockroach-debug-merge-logs.html) commands will now work with [JSON-formatted logs](../v22.1/log-formats.html#format-json). [#81469][#81469]

<h3 id="v22-1-1-command-line-changes">Command-line changes</h3>

- The standalone SQL shell executable `cockroach-sql` can now be installed (renamed/symlinked) as `cockroach`, and invoked via `cockroach sql`. For example, the following commands are all equivalent: `cockroach-sql -f foo.sql`, `cockroach-sql sql -f foo.sql`; and after running `ln -s cockroach-sql cockroach`, `cockroach sql -f foo.sql`. [#80930][#80930]
- Added a new flag `--advertise-http-addr`, which explicitly sets the HTTP advertise address that is used to display the URL for [DB Console access](../v22.1/ui-overview.html#db-console-access) and for proxying HTTP connections between nodes as described in [#73285](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/issues/73285). It may be necessary to set `--advertise-http-addr` in order for these features to work correctly in some deployments. Previously, the HTTP advertise address was derived from the OS hostname, the `--advertise-addr`, and the `--http-addr` flags, in that order. The new logic will override the HTTP advertise host with the host from `--advertise-addr` first if set, and then the host from `--http-addr`. The port will **never** be inherited from `--advertise-host` and will only be inherited from `--http-addr`, which is `8080` by default. [#81316][#81316]
- If [node decommissioning](../v22.1/node-shutdown.html?filters=decommission) is slow or stalls, the descriptions of some "stuck" replicas are now printed to the operator. [#79516][#79516]
- [`cockroach debug zip`](../v22.1/cockroach-debug-zip.html) now includes system tables using a denylist instead of an allowlist. [#81383][#81383]

<h3 id="v22-1-1-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- Added more job types to the **Type** filter on the [Jobs page](../v22.1/ui-jobs-page.html#filter-jobs). [#80128][#80128]
- Added a dropdown filter on the [Node Diagnostics page](../v22.1/ui-debug-pages.html#even-more-advanced-debugging) to view by **Active**, **Decomissioned**, or **All** nodes. [#80320][#80320]
- The custom selection in the time picker on the Metrics dashboards, [SQL Activity page](../v22.1/ui-statements-page.html), and other DB Console pages now defaults to the currently selected time. [#80794][#80794]
- Updated all dates to use 24h format in UTC. [#81747][#81747]
- Fixed the size of the table area on the [Statements](../v22.1/ui-statements-page.html) and [Transactions](../v22.1/ui-transactions-page.html) pages to prevent cutting off the columns selector and filters. [#81746][#81746]
- The [Job status](../v22.1/ui-jobs-page.html#job-status) on the Jobs page of the DB Console will now show a status column for [changefeed](../v22.1/change-data-capture-overview.html) jobs and display the `highwater_timestamp` value in a separate column. Thise more closely matches the SQL output of [`SHOW CHANGEFEED JOBS`](../v22.1/show-jobs.html). The highwater timestamp now displays as the nanosecond system time value by default, with the human-readable value in the tooltip, since the decimal value is copy/pasted more often. [#81757][#81757]
- The tooltip for a Session's status on the [Sessions page](../v22.1/ui-sessions-page.html) has been updated with a more explicit definition: `A session is Active if it has an open explicit or implicit transaction (individual SQL statement) with a statement that is actively running or waiting to acquire a lock. A session is Idle if it is not executing a statement.` [#81904][#81904]

<h3 id="v22-1-1-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Previously, CockroachDB could lose the `INT2VECTOR` and `OIDVECTOR` type of some arrays. This is now fixed. [#78581][#78581]
- Previously, CockroachDB could encounter an internal error when evaluating queries with `OFFSET` and `LIMIT` clauses when the addition of the `offset` and the `limit` value would be larger than `int64` range. This is now fixed. [#79878][#79878]
- Previously, a custom time-series metric `sql.distsql.queries.spilled` was computed incorrectly, leading to an exaggerated number. This is now fixed. [#79882][#79882]
- Fixed a bug where `NaN` coordinates when using `ST_Intersects`/`ST_Within`/`ST_Covers` would return `true` instead of `false` for point-in-polygon operations. [#80202][#80202]
- Added a detailed error message for index out of bounds when decoding a binary tuple datum. This does not fix the root cause, but should give more insight into what is happening. [#79933][#79933]
- Fixed a bug where `ST_MinimumBoundingCircle` would panic with infinite coordinates and a `num_segments` argument. [#80347][#80347]
- Addressed an issue where automatic encryption-at-rest data key rotation would be disabled after a node restart without a store key rotation. [#80563][#80563]
- Fixed the formatting/printing behavior for [`ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGES`](../v22.1/alter-default-privileges.html), which will correct some mistaken error messages. [#80327][#80327]
- Fixed a bug whereby the cluster version could regress due to a race condition. [#80711][#80711]
- Fixed a rare crash which could occur when restarting a node after dropping tables. [#80572][#80572]
- Previously, in very rare circumstances, CockroachDB could incorrectly evaluate queries with an `ORDER BY` clause when the prefix of ordering was already provided by the index ordering of the scanned table. [#80714][#80714]
- Index recommendations are no longer presented for system tables in the output of [`EXPLAIN`](../v22.1/explain.html) statements. [#80952][#80952]
- Fixed a goroutine leak when internal rangefeed clients received certain kinds of retriable errors. [#80798][#80798]
- Fixed a bug that allowed duplicate constraint names for the same table if the constraints were on hidden columns. [#80637][#80637]
- Errors encountered when sending rebalancing hints to the [storage layer](../v22.1/architecture/storage-layer.html) during [`IMPORT`](../v22.1/import.html)s and index creation are now only logged, and no longer cause the job to fail. [#80469][#80469]
- Fixed a bug where if a transaction's commit time is pushed forward from its initial provisional time, an enclosing [`CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW AS ...`](../v22.1/create-view.html) might fail to find other descriptors created in the same transaction during the view's backfill stage. The detailed descriptor of this bug is summarized in issue [#79015](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/issues/79015). [#80908][#80908]
- Contention statistics are now collected for SQL statistics when tracing is enabled. [#81070][#81070]
- Fixed a bug in [row-level TTL](../v22.1/row-level-ttl.html) where the last range key of a table may overlap with a separate table or index, resulting in an `error decoding X bytes` error message when performing row-level TTL. [#81262][#81262]
- Fixed a bug where `format_type` on the `void` type resulted in an error. [#81323][#81323]
- Fixed a bug in which some prepared statements could result in incorrect results when executed. This could occur when the prepared statement included an equality comparison between an index column and a placeholder, and the placholder was cast to a type that was different from the column type. For example, if column a was of type `DECIMAL`, the following prepared query could produce incorrect results when executed: `SELECT * FROM t_dec WHERE a = $1::INT8;` [#81345][#81345]
- Fixed a bug where `ST_MinimumBoundingCircle` with `NaN` coordinates could panic. [#81462][#81462]
- Fixed a panic that was caused by setting the `tracing` session variable using [`SET LOCAL`](../v22.1/set-vars.html) or [`ALTER ROLE ... SET`](../v22.1/alter-role.html). [#81505][#81505]
- Fixed a bug where [`GRANT ALL TABLES IN SCHEMA`](../v22.1/grant.html) would not resolve the correct database name if it was explicitly specified. [#81553][#81553]
- Previously, cancelling `COPY` commands would show an `XXUUU` error, instead of `57014`. This is now fixed. [#81595][#81595]
- Fixed a bug that caused errors with the message `unable to vectorize execution plan: unhandled expression type` in rare cases. This bug had been present since v21.2.0. [#81591][#81591]
- Fixed a bug where [changefeeds](../v22.1/change-data-capture-overview.html) could fail permanently if encountering an error while planning their distribution, even though such errors are usually transient. [#81685][#81685]
- Fixed a gap in disk-stall detection. Previously, disk stalls during filesystem metadata operations could go undetected, inducing deadlocks. Now stalls during these types of operations will correctly fatal the process. [#81752][#81752]
- Fixed an issue where the `encryptionStatus` field on the [**Stores** debug page](../v22.1/ui-debug-pages.html) of the DB Console would display an error instead of displaying encryption details when encryption-at-rest is enabled. [#81500][#81500]
- In v21.1, a bug was introduced whereby default values were recomputed when populating data in new secondary indexes for columns which were added in the same transaction as the index. This would arise, for example, in cases like `ALTER TABLE t ADD COLUMN f FLOAT8 UNIQUE DEFAULT (random())`. If the default expression was not volatile, then the recomputation was harmless. If, however, the default expression was volatile, the data in the secondary index would not match the data in the primary index: a corrupt index would have been created. This bug has now been fixed. [#81549][#81549]
- Previously, when running [`ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGES IN SCHEMA {virtual schema}`](../v22.1/alter-schema.html), a panic occured. This now returns the error message `{virtual schema} is not a physical schema`. [#81704][#81704]
- Previously, CockroachDB would encounter an internal error when executing queries with `lead` or `lag` window functions when the default argument had a different type than the first argument. This is now fixed. [#81756][#81756]
- Fixed an issue where a left lookup join could have incorrect results. In particular, some output rows could have non-`NULL` values for right-side columns when the right-side columns should have been `NULL`. This issue only existed in v22.1.0 and prior development releases of v22.1. [#82076][#82076]
- The [Statements](../v22.1/ui-statements-page.html) and [Transactions](../v22.1/ui-transactions-page.html) pages no longer crash when a search term includes `*`. [#82085][#82085]
- The special characters `*` and `^` are no longer highlighted when searching on the [Statements](../v22.1/ui-statements-page.html) and [Transactions](../v22.1/ui-transactions-page.html) pages. [#82085][#82085]
- Previously, if materialized view creation failed during the backfill stage, CockroachDB would properly clean up the view but not any of the back references. Back and forward references for materialized views are now cleaned up. [#82099][#82099]
- Fix a bug where `\copy` in the CLI would panic. [#82197][#82197]
- Fixed a bug introduced in v21.2 where the `sql-stats-compaction` job had a chance of not being scheduled during an upgrade from v21.1 to v21.2, causing persisted statement and transaction statistics to be enabled without memory accounting. [#82283][#82283]
- Fixed an edge case where `VALUES` clauses with nested tuples could fail to be type-checked properly in rare cases. [#82298][#82298]
- The [`CREATE SEQUENCE ... AS`](../v22.1/create-sequence.html) statement now returns a valid error message when the specified type name does not exist. [#82322][#82322]
- The [`SHOW STATISTICS`](../v22.1/show-statistics.html) output no longer displays statistics involving dropped columns. [#82315][#82315]
- Fixed a bug where [changefeeds](../v22.1/change-data-capture-overview.html) created before upgrading to v22.1 would silently fail to emit any data other than resolved timestamps. [#82312][#82312]
- Fixed a rare crash indicating a nil-pointer deference in `google.golang.org/grpc/internal/transport.(*Stream).Context(...)`. [#80911][#80911]

<h3 id="v22-1-1-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- Bulk ingestion of unsorted data during [`IMPORT`](../v22.1/import.html) and schema changes uses a higher level of parallelism to send produced data to the storage layer. [#80386][#80386]

<h4 id="v22-1-1-docker">Docker</h4>

- Refactored the initialization process of the Docker image to accomodate initialization scripts with memory storage. [#80355][#80355]

<h3 id="v22-1-1-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 183 merged PRs by 55 authors.
We would like to thank the following contributors from the CockroachDB community:

- Nathan Lowe (first-time contributor)

[#78581]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/78581
[#78636]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/78636
[#79516]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/79516
[#79878]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/79878
[#79882]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/79882
[#79930]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/79930
[#79933]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/79933
[#80128]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80128
[#80202]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80202
[#80278]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80278
[#80292]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80292
[#80320]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80320
[#80327]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80327
[#80345]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80345
[#80347]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80347
[#80355]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80355
[#80386]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80386
[#80434]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80434
[#80469]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80469
[#80493]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80493
[#80517]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80517
[#80563]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80563
[#80572]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80572
[#80637]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80637
[#80711]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80711
[#80714]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80714
[#80718]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80718
[#80794]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80794
[#80798]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80798
[#80801]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80801
[#80908]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80908
[#80911]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80911
[#80930]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80930
[#80952]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80952
[#80987]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80987
[#81019]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/81019
[#81070]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/81070
[#81261]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/81261
[#81262]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/81262
[#81316]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/81316
[#81323]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/81323
[#81345]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/81345
[#81383]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/81383
[#81462]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/81462
[#81469]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/81469
[#81496]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/81496
[#81500]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/81500
[#81505]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/81505
[#81549]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/81549
[#81550]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/81550
[#81553]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/81553
[#81591]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/81591
[#81595]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/81595
[#81684]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/81684
[#81685]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/81685
[#81704]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/81704
[#81746]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/81746
[#81747]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/81747
[#81752]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/81752
[#81756]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/81756
[#81757]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/81757
[#81820]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/81820
[#81904]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/81904
[#81919]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/81919
[#82076]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/82076
[#82085]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/82085
[#82099]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/82099
[#82197]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/82197
[#82283]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/82283
[#82298]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/82298
[#82312]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/82312
[#82315]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/82315
[#82322]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/82322
[01c751566]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/01c751566
[e23f28a97]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/e23f28a97
