## v22.1.17

Release Date: March 27, 2023

{% include releases/release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v22-1-17-security-updates">Security updates</h3>

- Previously, users could gain unauthorized access to [statement diagnostic bundles](../v22.1/ui-debug-pages.html#reports) they did not create if they requested the bundle through an HTTP request to `/_admin/v1/stmtbundle/<id>` and correctly guessed its (non-secret) ID. This change locks down this endpoint behind the usual SQL gating that correctly uses the SQL user in the HTTP session as identified by their cookie. [#99055][#99055]
- Ensure that no unsanitized URIs or secret keys get written to the [jobs table](../v22.1/show-jobs.html) if the [backup](../v22.1/backup.html) fails. [#99265][#99265]

<h3 id="v22-1-17-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- Increased the default value of [the `sql.stats.cleanup.rows_to_delete_per_txn` cluster setting](../v22.1/cluster-settings.html) to 10k, to increase efficiency of the cleanup job for [SQL statistics](../v22.1/cost-based-optimizer.html#table-statistics). [#97722][#97722]
- Added support for the syntax [`CREATE DATABASE IF NOT EXISTS ... WITH OWNER`](../v22.1/create-database.html). [#97976][#97976]
- Added a new [session setting](../v22.1/set-vars.html#supported-variables), `optimizer_always_use_histograms`, which ensures that the optimizer always uses histograms when available to calculate the [statistics](../v22.1/cost-based-optimizer.html#table-statistics) of every plan that it explores. Enabling this setting can prevent the optimizer from choosing a suboptimal [index](../v22.1/indexes.html) when statistics for a table are stale. [#98229][#98229]
- The [`SHOW DEFAULT PRIVILEGES`](../v22.1/show-default-privileges.html) command now has a column that says if the default privilege will give [the grant option](../v22.1/security-reference/authorization.html#supported-privileges) to the grantee. [#98012][#98012]
- Added a new internal virtual table [`crdb_internal.node_memory_monitors`](../v22.1/crdb-internal.html). It exposes all of the current reservations with the [memory accounting system](../v22.1/ui-runtime-dashboard.html#memory-usage) on a single node. Access to the table requires [`VIEWACTIVITY` or `VIEWACTIVITYREDACTED` permissions](../v22.1/security-reference/authorization.html#supported-privileges). [#98043][#98043]
- Fixed the help message on the [`UPDATE`](../v22.1/update.html) to correctly position the optional `FROM` clause in the help output. [cockroachdb/cockroach#99293][#99293]

<h3 id="v22-1-17-command-line-changes">Command-line changes</h3>

- The `--drain-wait` argument to the [`cockroach node drain`](../v22.1/cockroach-node.html) command will be automatically increased if the command detects that it is smaller than the sum of the [cluster settings](../v22.1/node-shutdown.html#cluster-settings) `server.shutdown.drain_wait`, `server.shutdown.connection_wait`, `server.shutdown.query_wait` times two, and `server.shutdown.lease_transfer_wait`. If the `--drain-wait` argument is 0, then no timeout is used. This recommendation [was already documented](../v22.1/node-shutdown.html#drain-timeout), but now the advice will be applied automatically. [#98578][#98578]

<h3 id="v22-1-17-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- Add the following new [metrics](../v22.1/metrics.html) to track memory usage of prepared statements in [sessions](../v22.1/show-sessions.html) [#97741][#97741]:
  - `sql.mem.internal.session.prepared.current`
  - `sql.mem.internal.session.prepared.max-avg`
  - `sql.mem.internal.session.prepared.max-count`
  - `sql.mem.internal.session.prepared.max-max`
  - `sql.mem.internal.session.prepared.max-p50`
  - `sql.mem.internal.session.prepared.max-p75`
  - `sql.mem.internal.session.prepared.max-p90`
  - `sql.mem.internal.session.prepared.max-p99`
  - `sql.mem.internal.session.prepared.max-p99.9`
  - `sql.mem.internal.session.prepared.max-p99.99`
  - `sql.mem.internal.session.prepared.max-p99.999`
  - `sql.mem.sql.session.prepared.current`
  - `sql.mem.sql.session.prepared.max-avg`
  - `sql.mem.sql.session.prepared.max-count`
  - `sql.mem.sql.session.prepared.max-max`
  - `sql.mem.sql.session.prepared.max-p50`
  - `sql.mem.sql.session.prepared.max-p75`
  - `sql.mem.sql.session.prepared.max-p90`
  - `sql.mem.sql.session.prepared.max-p99`
  - `sql.mem.sql.session.prepared.max-p99.9`
  - `sql.mem.sql.session.prepared.max-p99.99`
  - `sql.mem.sql.session.prepared.max-p99.999`

<h3 id="v22-1-17-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Previously, the [`ALTER TABLE ... INJECT STATISTICS`](../v22.1/alter-table.html) command would fail if a column with the [`COLLATED STRING` type](../v22.1/collate.html) had histograms to be injected, and this is now fixed. The bug has been present since at least [v21.2](../releases/v21.2.html). [#97492][#97492]
- Fixed a bug where CockroachDB could encounter an internal error `"no bytes in account to release ..."` in rare cases. The bug was introduced in [v22.1](../releases/v22.1.html). [#97774][#97774]
- [Transaction](../v22.1/transactions.html) uncertainty intervals are correctly configured for reverse scans again, ensuring that reverse scans cannot serve [stale reads](../v22.1/architecture/transaction-layer.html#stale-reads) when clocks in a cluster are skewed. [#97519][#97519]
- The owner of the [public schema](../v22.1/schema-design-overview.html#schemas) can now be changed. Use [`ALTER SCHEMA public OWNER TO new_owner`](../v22.1/alter-schema.html). [#98064][#98064]
- Fixed a bug in which [common table expressions](../v22.1/common-table-expressions.html) (CTEs) marked as `WITH RECURSIVE` which were not actually recursive could return incorrect results. This could happen if the CTE used a `UNION ALL`, because the [optimizer](../v22.1/cost-based-optimizer.html) incorrectly converted the `UNION ALL` to a `UNION`. This bug had existed since support for recursive CTEs was first added in [v20.1](../releases/v20.1.html). [#98114][#98114]
- Since [v22.1](../releases/v22.1.html) when [rangefeed](../v22.1/create-and-configure-changefeeds.html#enable-rangefeeds) enablement overrides in span configs were introduced, rangefeed requests that reached spans outside the [range](../v22.1/architecture/glossary.html#architecture-range) would not cause range cache invalidation due to the setting being checked first, thus requests could repeatedly hit the same incorrect range, causing errors until cache invalidation or node restart. This fix correctly checks that the span is within the range prior to checking the enablement settings, thus invalidating the cache when a request reaches an incorrect range and causing subsequent requests to successfully reach the correct range. [#97660][#97660]
- Fixed A bug has been fixed that could crash the process when a query contained a literal [tuple expression](../v22.1/scalar-expressions.html#tuple-constructors) with more than two elements and only a single label, e.g., `((1, 2, 3) AS foo)`. [#98314][#98314]
- - Allow users with the `VIEWACTIVITY`/`VIEWACTIVITYREDACTED` [permissions](../v22.1/security-reference/authorization.html#role-options) to access the [`crdb_internal.ranges_no_leases`](../v22.1/crdb-internal.html) table, necessary to view important DB Console pages (specifically, the [Databases Page](../v22.1/ui-databases-page.html), including database details, and database tables). [#98646][#98646]
- Fixed a bug where using [`ST_Transform`](../v22.1/functions-and-operators.html#st_transform) could result in a memory leak. [#98835][#98835]
- Fixed a bug that caused incorrect results when comparisons of [tuples](../v22.1/scalar-expressions.html#tuple-constructors) were done using the `ANY` [operator](../v22.1/functions-and-operators.html#operators). For example, an expression like `(x, y) = ANY ([SELECT](../v22.1/selection-queries.html) a, b FROM t WHERE ...)` could return `true` instead of the correct result of `NULL` when `x` and `y` were `NULL`, or `a` and `b` were `NULL`. This could only occur if the [subquery was correlated](../v22.1/subqueries.html#correlated-subqueries), i.e., it references columns from the outer part of the query. This bug was present since the [cost-based optimizer](../v22.1/cost-based-optimizer.html) was introduced in [v2.1](../releases/v2.1.html). [#99161][#99161]

<h3 id="v22-1-17-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 40 merged PRs by 27 authors.

</div>

[#97492]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/97492
[#97519]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/97519
[#97660]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/97660
[#97722]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/97722
[#97741]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/97741
[#97774]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/97774
[#97976]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/97976
[#98012]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98012
[#98043]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98043
[#98064]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98064
[#98114]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98114
[#98229]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98229
[#98314]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98314
[#98392]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98392
[#98578]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98578
[#98646]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98646
[#98835]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98835
[#99055]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/99055
[#99161]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/99161
[#99293]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/99293
