## v23.2.19

Release Date: January 9, 2025

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v23-2-19-security-updates">Security updates</h3>

- The cluster setting `server.jwt_authentication.issuers` now takes the issuers configuration value from the URI. This can be set to one of the following values:
  1. Simple string that can be parsed as a valid issuer URL. For example: `'https://accounts.google.com'`.
  1. String that can be parsed as a valid JSON array of issuer URLs list. For example: `['example.com/adfs','https://accounts.google.com']`.
  1. String that can be parsed as valid JSON and deserialized into a map of issuer URLs to corresponding JWKS URIs. In this case, the JWKS URI present in the issuer's well-known endpoint will be overridden. For example: `'{"issuer_jwks_map": {"https://accounts.google.com": "https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v3/certs", "example.com/adfs": "https://example.com/adfs/discovery/keys"}}'`. When `issuer_jwks_map` is set, the JWKS URI is directly used to get the key set. In all other cases when `JWKSAutoFetchEnabled` is set, the JWKS URI is obtained first from the issuer's well-known endpoint and then this endpoint is used.

<h3 id="v23-2-19-general-changes">General changes</h3>

- In order to improve the granularity of changefeed pipeline metrics, the changefeed metrics `changefeed.admit_latency` and `changefeed.commit_latency` now have histogram buckets from `5ms` to `60m` (previously `500ms` to `5m`). The changefeed metrics `changefeed.parallel_io_queue_nanos`, `changefeed.parallel_io_result_queue_nanos`, `changefeed.sink_batch_hist_nanos`, `changefeed.flush_hist_nanos`, and `changefeed.kafka_throttling_hist_nanos` have histogram buckets from `5ms` to `10m` (previously `500ms` to `5m`).
- Added support for multiple seed brokers in the new Kafka sink.
- Added a metric `distsender.rangefeed.catchup_ranges_waiting_client_side` that counts how many rangefeeds are waiting on the client-side limiter to start performing catchup scans.
- Added changefeed support for the `mvcc_timestamp` option with the `avro` format. If both options are specified, the Avro schema includes an `mvcc_timestamp` metadata field and emits the row's MVCC timestamp with the row data.

<h3 id="v23-2-19-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- Added the `legacy_varchar_typing` session setting that reverts the changes of that caused the change in typing behavior described in. Specifically, the `legacy_varchar_typing` session setting makes type-checking and overload resolution ignore the newly added "unpreferred" overloads. This setting defaults to `on`.

<h3 id="v23-2-19-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- Telemetry delivery is now considered successful even in cases where we experience a network timeout. This will prevent throttling in cases outside an operator's control.
- When a schema change job completes, rolls back, or encounters a failure, the time taken since the job began is now logged in a structured log in the `SQL_SCHEMA` log channel.

<h3 id="v23-2-19-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- `CREATE SCHEMA` now returns the correct error if the schema name is missing.
- Fixed an issue where corrupted table statistics could cause the CockroachDB process to crash.
- The `idle_in_session_timeout` setting now excludes the time spent waiting for schema changer jobs to complete, preventing unintended session termination during schema change operations.
- Fixed a bug that caused the optimizer to use stale table statistics after altering an enum type used in the table.
- CockroachDB now better respects `statement_timeout` limit on queries involving the top K sort and merge join operations.
- Fixed an issue where license enforcement was not consistently disabled for single-node clusters started with `start-single-node`. Now, cluster restarts correctly disable licensing.
- Fixed a bug that caused queries against tables with user-defined types to sometimes fail with errors after restoring those tables.
- Fixed a bug that could cause an internal error if a table with an implicit (`rowid`) primary key was locked from within a subquery, for example, ` SELECT * FROM (SELECT * FROM foo WHERE x = 2) FOR UPDATE;` . The error could occur either under read-committed isolation, or with `optimizer_use_lock_op_for_serializable` enabled.
- Fixed an issue where adding an existing column with the `IF NOT EXISTS` option could exit too early, skipping necessary handling of the abstract syntax tree (AST). This could lead to failure of the `ALTER` statement.
- `CLOSE CURSOR` statements are now allowed in read-only transactions, similar to PostgreSQL. The bug has been present since at least v23.1.
- Fixed an issue where a schema change could incorrectly cause a changefeed to fail with an assertion error like `received boundary timestamp ... of type ... before reaching existing boundary of type ...`.
- Internal scans are now exempt from the `sql.defaults.disallow_full_table_scans.enabled` setting, allowing index creation even when the cluster setting is enabled.
- A new column of type `JSON` or `JSONB` that has a `UNIQUE` constraint will now be blocked from being added to a table if the cluster has not yet finalized the upgrade to v23.2.
