## v23.2.0-beta.1

Release Date: November 27, 2023

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v23-2-0-beta-1-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- [`COPY`](../v23.2/copy-from.html) commands now use the [`background` quality-of-service level](../v23.2/admission-control.html#set-quality-of-service-level-for-a-session) by default, which makes `COPY` commands subject to [admission control](../v23.2/admission-control.html). The new session variable `copy_transaction_quality_of_service` controls the quality-of-service level for `COPY` commands. Previously, `COPY` used the same level as other commands, determined by the `default_transaction_quality_of_service` session variable, which is set to `regular` by default. `regular` is not subject to admission control. [#114535][#114535]

<h3 id="v23-2-0-beta-1-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- The [Overview page](../v23.2/ui-overview.html) now correctly renders the background color for the email signup, which fixes an issue where it was difficult to read the text. [#114547][#114547]
- Fixed a bug where selecting the internal application name prefix `$ internal` from the **Application Name** dropdown on the [**SQL Activity Statements** page](../v23.2/ui-statements-page.html) was not showing internal queries. The filtering logic will now show if there are statements with the `$ internal` application name prefix. [#114517][#114517]

<h3 id="v23-2-0-beta-1-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug where an empty [range](../v23.2/architecture/overview.html#architecture-range) corresponding to a [`DROP TABLE`](../v23.2/drop-table.html) did not respect system-level span configurations such as [protected timestamps](../v23.2/architecture/storage-layer.html#protected-timestamps), which potentially caused reads above the protected timestamp to fail. [#114833][#114833]
- Fixed error handling for `GetFiles` so that it does not cause a nil pointer dereference. [#114830][#114830]

<h3 id="v23-2-0-beta-1-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 33 merged PRs by 21 authors.

</div>

[#114517]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/114517
[#114535]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/114535
[#114547]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/114547
[#114830]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/114830
[#114833]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/114833
