## v23.2.13

Release Date: October 17, 2024

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v23-2-13-{{-site.data.products.enterprise-}}-edition-changes">{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} edition changes</h3>

- The description for the [cluster setting]({% link v23.2/cluster-settings.md %}) `changefeed.sink_io_workers` now lists all [changefeed sinks]({% link v23.2/changefeed-sinks.md %}) that support the setting. [#130372][#130372]
- Network metrics have been added for the following [changefeed sinks]({% link v23.2/changefeed-sinks.md %}):
- Added two network metrics, `changefeed.network.bytes_in` and `changefeed.network.bytes_out`.  These metrics track the number of bytes sent by individual [changefeeds]({% link v23.2/change-data-capture-overview.md %}) to the following sinks:
      - [Kafka sinks]({% link v23.2/changefeed-sinks.md %}#kafka). If child metrics are enabled, the metric will have a `kafka` label.
      - [Webhook sinks]({% link v23.2/changefeed-sinks.md %}#webhook-sink). If child metrics are enabled, the metric will have a `webhook` label.
      - [Pub/Sub sinks]({% link v23.2/changefeed-sinks.md %}#google-cloud-pub-sub). If child metrics are enabled, the metric will have a `pubsub` label.
      - [SQL sink]({% link v23.2/changefeed-for.md %}). If child metrics are enabled, the metric will have a `sql` label.

      [#130664][#130664]

- The new [metric]({% link v23.2/metrics.md %}) `changefeed.total_ranges` allows observation of the number of changes that are watched by a changefeed aggregator. It uses the same polling interval as `changefeed.lagging_ranges`, which is controlled by the changefeed option `lagging_ranges_polling_interval`. [#130984][#130984]
- The following groups of [metrics]({% link v23.2/metrics.md %}) and [logs]({% link v23.2/logging.md %}) have been renamed to include the buffer they are associated with. The previous metrics are still maintained for backward compatibility.
      - `changefeed.buffer_entries.*`
      - `changefeed.buffer_entries_mem.*`
      - `changefeed.buffer_pushback_nanos.*`

      [#131417][#131417]
- Added timers and corresponding [metrics]({% link v24.2/metrics.md %} for key parts of the [changefeed]({% link v24.2/change-data-capture-overview.md %}) pipeline to help debug issues with feeds. The `changefeed.stage.{stage}.latency` metrics now emit latency histograms for each stage. The metrics respect the changefeed `scope` label to debug a specific feed. [#131428][#131428]

<h3 id="v23-2-13-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- The new [metric]({% link v23.2/metrics.md %}) `ranges.decommissioning` shows the number of ranges with a replica on a [decommissioning node]({% link v23.2/node-shutdown.md %}). [#130251][#130251]
- The following new [metrics]({% link v23.2/metrics.md %}) show the number of RPC TCP connections established to remote nodes:
      - `rpc.connection.connected`: the number of gRPC TCP level connections established to remote nodes.
      - `rpc.client.bytes.egress`: the number of TCP bytes sent over gRPC on connections initiated by the cluster.
      - `rpc.client.bytes.ingress`: the number of TCP bytes received over gRPC on connections initiated by the cluster.

      [#130521][#130521]
- Added a new configuration parameter, `server.cidr_mapping_url`, which maps IPv4 CIDR blocks to arbitrary tag names. [#130528][#130528]
- The [metrics]({% link v23.2/metrics.md %}) `sql.bytesin` and `sql.bytesout` are now aggregate metrics if child metrics are enabled. [#130528][#130528]
- The following new [metrics]({% link v23.2/metrics.md %}) track the number of bytes sent by an individual [changefeed]({% link v23.2/change-data-capture-overview.md %}) to each sink:
    - `changefeed.network.bytes_in`
    - `changefeed.network.bytes_out`

    [#130664][#130664]
- You can now set the log format for the `STDERR` changefeed sink using the `format` field in the `stderr` sink section of the [logging]({% link v23.2/logging.md %}) configuration. [#131533][#131533]

<h3 id="v23-2-13-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- The [DB Console]({% link v24.2/ui-overview.md %}) now shows a notification if the cluster has no Enterprise license set. Refer to [upcoming license changes](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/enterprise-license-update/) for more information. [#130425][#130425]

<h3 id="v23-2-13-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug where the command `SHOW CLUSTER SETTING FOR VIRTUAL CLUSTER` would erroneously return `NULL` for some settings. [#128782][#128782]
- Fixed a bug where a node could fail to start with the error `could not insert session ...: unexpected value` if an ambiguous result error occurred while inserting data into the `sqlliveness` table. [#130343][#130343]
- Fixed a bug that could prevent [upgrade finalization]({% link v23.2/upgrade-cockroach-version.md %}) due to the upgrade pre-condition for repairing descriptor corruption. [#130519][#130519]
- Fixed a rare bug where a lease transfer could lead to a `side-transport update saw closed timestamp regression` panic. The bug could occur when a node was overloaded and failing to heartbeat its node liveness record. [#130790][#130790]
- Fixed a bug that could result in the erroneous log message `expiration of liveness record ... is not greater than expiration of the previous lease ... after liveness heartbeat`. [#130790][#130790]
- Fixed a bug where queries that are not initiated within a SQL session could fail to respect a statement timeout, including [background jobs]({% link v23.2/show-jobs.md %}), queries issued by the [DB Console]({% link v23.2/ui-overview.md %}) that perform introspection, and the [CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} SQL Shell]({% link cockroachcloud/sql-shell.md %}). [#130790][#130790]
- Fixed a bug where a connection could be incorrectly dropped if the client was attempting to change a schema at the same time that the same schema's objects were being dropped. [#130964][#130964]
- Fixed a bug that could cause the following error to be logged when executing a query under [READ COMMITTED]({% link v23.2/read-committed.md %}) isolation if it involved a table with `NOT NULL` virtual columns: `internal error: Non-nullable column ...`. [#131065][#131065]
- Fixed a potential memory leak in [changefeeds]({% link v23.2/change-data-capture-overview.md %}) that use a cloud storage sink. The memory leak could occur if both of the [cluster settings]({% link v23.2/cluster-settings.md %}) `changefeed.fast_gzip.enabled` and `changefeed.cloudstorage.async_flush.enabled` were `true` **and** if the changefeed received an error while attempting to write to the sink. [#130614][#130614]
- Fixed a bug introduced in v23.2.6, where [statistics]({% link v23.2/create-statistics.md %}) forecasting could predict a result of zero rows for a downward-trending statistic when `sql.stats.forecasts.max_decrease` is `false`. The setting is now enabled (set to `1/3` by default). [#131128][#131128]
- Fixed a bug introduced in v23.1 that can cause incorrect results in the following scenario:
    1. The query contains a correlated subquery.
    1. The correlated subquery has a `GroupBy` or `DistinctOn` operator with an outer-column reference in its input.
    1. The correlated subquery is in the input of a `SELECT` or `JOIN` clause that has a filter that sets the outer-column reference equal to an inner column that is in the input of the grouping operator.
    1. The set of grouping columns does not include the replacement column explicitly.

    [#130988][#130988]
- Fixed a bug where [AWS S3 and HTTP client configurations]({% link v23.2/cloud-storage-authentication.md %}) were not considered when implicit authentication was used. [#131201][#131201]
- Fixed a bug that could prevent a [changefeed]({% link v23.2/change-data-capture-overview.md %}) from resuming from a prolonged paused state. [#130919][#130919]

[#128782]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/128782
[#130251]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/130251
[#130343]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/130343
[#130372]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/130372
[#130425]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/130425
[#130519]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/130519
[#130521]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/130521
[#130528]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/130528
[#130614]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/130614
[#130664]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/130664
[#130790]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/130790
[#130919]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/130919
[#130984]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/130984
[#130988]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/130988
[#131065]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/131065
[#131128]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/131128
[#131201]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/131201
[#131417]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/131417
[#131428]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/131428
[#131533]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/131533
