## v23.2.0-alpha.4

Release Date: October 23, 2023

{% include releases/release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v23-2-0-alpha-4-general-changes">General changes</h3>

- Update CCT license. [#112494][#112494]

<h3 id="v23-2-0-alpha-4-{{-site.data.products.enterprise-}}-edition-changes">{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} edition changes</h3>

- Settings related to the private preview physical replication feature have been renamed to be more consistent. For example, `bulkio.stream_ingestion.minimum_flush_interval` is now `physical_replication.consumer.minimum_flush_interval`. [#111197][#111197]

<h3 id="v23-2-0-alpha-4-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- `SHOW SCHEDULES` has two columns that surface the schedule options. These columns have been renamed to align with the documented option names namely `on_previous_running` and `on_execution_failure`. [#111759][#111759]
- Added support for the PLpgSQL CLOSE statement. [#111330][#111330]
- Users are not able to perform a `remove_regions` RESTORE if the object being restored contains a regional by row table. [#111443][#111443]
- It is now possible to open a cursor within a PLpgSQL function or procedure with an exception block. If an error occurs, creation of the cursor is rolled back before control reaches the exception handler. [#111735][#111735]
- If a scheduled backup resumes on a new cluster (e.g. after C2C cutover or a tenant restore), the backup schedule will pause. The user may resume the schedule without changing it, but should take special care to ensure no other schedule is backing up to the same collection. The user may also want to cancel the paused schedule and start a new one. [#111578][#111578]
- Added support for PLpgSQL FETCH and MOVE statements. Similar to SQL FETCH/MOVE statements, commands that would seek the cursor backward will fail. In addition, expressions other than constant integers are not yet supported for the `count` option. [#111318][#111318]
- Added support for the `REFCURSOR` data type. `REFCURSOR` is a special string type that is used to handle cursors. PLpgSQL cursor declarations are required to use a variable of type `REFCURSOR`, and the name of a cursor can be passed to and from a PLpgSQL function or procedure. [#111392][#111392]
- Two minor changes to FOR UPDATE clauses:  1. Multiple FOR UPDATE clauses on fully-parenthesized queries are now disallowed. For example, the following statements are now disallowed:  ``` (SELECT 1 FOR UPDATE) FOR UPDATE; SELECT * FROM ((SELECT 1 FOR UPDATE) FOR UPDATE) AS x; ```  whereas statements like the following are still allowed:  ``` SELECT * FROM (SELECT 1 FOR UPDATE) AS x FOR UPDATE; SELECT (SELECT 1 FOR UPDATE) FOR UPDATE; ```  This does not match PostgreSQL, which allows all of these, but does match our behavior for ORDER BY and LIMIT.  2. FOR UPDATE is now allowed on statements with VALUES in the FROM list or as a subquery. For example, the following statements are now allowed:  ``` SELECT (VALUES (1)) FOR UPDATE; SELECT * FROM (VALUES (1)) AS x FOR UPDATE; ```  Using FOR UPDATE directly on VALUES is still disallowed:  ``` VALUES (1) FOR UPDATE; (VALUES (1)) FOR UPDATE; INSERT INTO t VALUES (1) FOR UPDATE; ```  This matches PostgreSQL. [#111258][#111258]
- Allow FOR UPDATE on some queries that were previously disallowed. Queries that use the following operations are now allowed to have FOR UPDATE OF as long as the prohibited operation is in a subquery not locked by the FOR UPDATE OF:  - UNION - INTERSECT - EXCEPT - DISTINCT - GROUP BY - HAVING - aggregations - window functions  For example, the following query is now allowed because the subquery using the prohibited operations is not affected by the FOR UPDATE OF:  ``` SELECT * FROM t,   (SELECT DISTINCT 0, 0 UNION SELECT a, count(*) FROM t GROUP BY a HAVING a > 0) AS u   FOR UPDATE OF t; ```  This matches PostgreSQL. [#111258][#111258]
- New builtin `crdb_internal.reset_insights_tables()` that resets the data from `system.statement_execution_insights` and `system.transaction_execution_insights`. [#111833][#111833]
- Reduces the sql activity job memory usage. [#111303][#111303]
- Match Postgres 15 behavior and disallow identifiers after numeric constants not separated by whitespace. [#112021][#112021]
- New column `contention_type` in crdb_internal.transaction_contention_events table indicating the type of txn contention encountered. Current values are - LOCK_WAIT  Part of: #111649 [#111685][#111685]
- Anonymizes function names in error reporting and telemetry so that user-provided names for UDFs are not included. [#110870][#110870]
- Change the following error message:  ``` statement error cannot execute FOR UPDATE in a read-only transaction ```  to this to match PostgreSQL:  ``` statement error cannot execute SELECT FOR UPDATE in a read-only transaction ``` [#112138][#112138]
- Add a new session variable, `optimizer_use_lock_op_for_serializable`, which when set enables a new implementation of `SELECT FOR UPDATE`. This new implementation of `SELECT FOR UPDATE` acquires row locks *after* any joins and filtering, and always acquires row locks on the primary index of the table being locked. This more closely matches `SELECT FOR UPDATE` behavior in PostgreSQL, but at the cost of more round trips from gateway node to replica leaseholder.  Under read committed isolation (and other isolation levels weaker than serializable) we will always use this new implementation of `SELECT FOR UPDATE` regardless of the value of `optimizer_use_lock_op_for_serializable` to ensure correctness. [#112138][#112138]

<h3 id="v23-2-0-alpha-4-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- A new cluster setting `server.http.base_path` is introduced that currently controls the redirection of the browser after successful login with OIDC SSO. It is expected that most customers should *not* have to adjust this. This is helpful in cases where a customer is running CRDB behind a load- balancer or proxy that serves CRDB under a subpath such as `https:// <hostname>/crdb/ `. In those cases it's necessary for the browser to redirect to `/ crdb` after login instead of `/` which has always been the hardcoded default. [#111283][#111283]

<h3 id="v23-2-0-alpha-4-cluster-virtualization">Cluster virtualization</h3>

- The following settings can now only be set from the system interface:  - all the `physical_replication.*` settings - `server.rangelog.ttl` - `timeseries.storage.*` [#111769][#111769]
- The cluster settings `cluster.organization` and `enterprise.license` can now only be set via the system interface. Attempting to set them from a virtual cluster now results in an error. [#111788][#111788]
- A new flag --internal-rpc-port range allows operators to specify the port range used by secondary virtual clusters for node-to-node communication. Users using the physical replication or virtual cluster preview features should use this flag if they require the cockroach processes to only communicate using ports in a known port range. [#111798][#111798]
- Two guardrails are available to system operators to help with users upgrading from single-tenant, non-virtualized CockroachDB to a deployment using cluster virtualization.  Specifically, this is intended to help in cases where the user is not connected to the "right" SQL interface to perform certain configuration operations.  There are two guardrails included here:  - new cluster setting `sql.restrict_system_interface.enabled` to push   the user towards using a virtual cluster for their application   workload. When set, certain common operations that end-users   may execute to set up an application workload are disallowed:    - running DDL.      For example:     ```     demo@127.0.0.1:26257/system/defaultdb> create database foo;     ERROR: blocked DDL from the system interface     SQLSTATE: 42501     HINT: Object creation blocked via sql.restrict_system_interface.enabled to prevent likely user errors.     Try running the DDL from a virtual cluster instead.     ```    - modifying an ApplicationLevel cluster setting.      For example:     ```     demo@127.0.0.1:26257/system/defaultdb> set cluster setting ui.display_timezone = 'America/New_York';     ERROR: blocked update to application-level setting from the system interface     SQLSTATE: 42501     HINT: Access blocked via sql.restrict_system_interface.enabled to prevent likely user errors.     Try changing the setting from a virtual cluster instead.     ```  - new cluster setting `sql.error_tip_system_interface.enabled` to   enhance errors reported when a user mistakenly uses a storage-level   SQL feature from a virtual cluster, to inform a user who might blindly   follow an old runbook that they should use the system interface   instead.    For example, for setting that were previously application-level:   ```   demo@127.0.0.1:26257/demoapp/defaultdb> set cluster setting kv.rangefeed.enabled = true;   NOTICE: ignoring attempt to modify "kv.rangefeed.enabled"   HINT: The setting is only modifiable by the operator.   Normally, an error would be reported, but the operation is silently accepted here as configured by "sql.error_tip_system_interface.enabled".   ```    And for settings that were always system-level:   ```   demo@127.0.0.1:26257/demoapp/defaultdb> set cluster setting trace.redact_at_virtual_cluster_boundary.enabled = false;   ERROR: cannot modify storage-level setting from virtual cluster   SQLSTATE: 42501   HINT: Connect to the system interface and modify the cluster setting from there.   ``` [#111568][#111568]
- The predefined config profiles related to cluster virtualization now automatically set the new cluster settings `sql.restrict_system_interface.enabled` and `sql.error_tip_system_interface.enabled`. [#111568][#111568]
- This removes the hidden --secondary-tenant-port-offset option. Users who were previously using this option should use --internal-rpc-port-range instead. [#112050][#112050]

<h3 id="v23-2-0-alpha-4-command-line-changes">Command-line changes</h3>

- New contention_type in table `SERIALIZATION_CONFLICT` `crdb_internal.transaction_contention_events`.  These contention events specify that contention occurred between 2 transactions due to serialization conflicts.  Closes: #111649 [#111685][#111685]
- `cockroach debug zip` has an additional flag that is default off `include-running-job-traces` that will enable collecting the inflight traces of traceable jobs such as backup, restore, import, c2c and dump them in a `jobs/` subdirectory in the zip. [#112644][#112644]

<h3 id="v23-2-0-alpha-4-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- Correctly display timestamps for creation, last modified, and completed time on Jobs table. [#110366][#110366]
- Txn insight details will show the following details when we have information on a txn execution with a 40001 error code and we have captured the conflicting txn meta (only available if the txn had not yet committed at the time of execution). A section called `Failed Execution` will appear when this information is available with the following info: - blocking txn execution id - blocking txn finggerprint id - conflict location - db, table and index names [#111873][#111873]
- Added progressive loading functionality to the databases page. [#110901][#110901]

<h3 id="v23-2-0-alpha-4-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- When using a private preview of physical cluster replication, in some circumstances the source cluster would be unable to take backups when a source cluster node was unavailable. [#111337][#111337]
- In txn insight details, we will only surface contention details for the current txn and no others. Previously it was possible to see the contention details of other txns due to a bug. [#111867][#111867]
- Voter constraints which were never satisfied due to all existing replicas being considered necessary to satisfy a replica constraint, will now be satisfied by promoting existing non-voters. [#111609][#111609]
- Indoption inside pg_index was not properly encoded, causing clients to be unable to decode it as int2vector. [#111911][#111911]
- This patch fixes an issue where the optimizer fails to honor the `statement_timeout` session setting when generating constrained index scans for queries with large IN lists or `= ANY` predicates on multiple index key columns, which may lead to an out of memory condition on the node. [#111979][#111979]
- This patch fixes a performance issue in join queries with a LIMIT clause, where the optimizer may fail to push a WHERE clause filter into a join due to how the Limit operation is internally rewritten, causing a full scan of the table referenced in the filter. [#110593][#110593]
- A bug has been fixed that caused internal errors during query optimization in rare cases. The bug has been present since version 2.1.11, but it is more likely to occur in version 21.2.0 and later, though it is still rare. The bug only presents when a query contains `min` and `max` aggregate functions. [#112255][#112255]

<h3 id="v23-2-0-alpha-4-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- This patch adds support for insert fast-path uniqueness checks on REGIONAL BY ROW tables where the source is a VALUES clause with a single row. This results in a reduction in latency for single-row inserts to REGIONAL BY ROW tables and hash-sharded REGIONAL BY ROW tables with unique indexes. [#111822][#111822]

<h3 id="v23-2-0-alpha-4-miscellaneous">Miscellaneous</h3>

<h4 id="v23-2-0-alpha-4-missing-category">Missing category</h4>

- Support for automatic finalization of virtual clusters version upgrade was added. A new setting `cluster.auto_upgrade.enabled` was added to enable and disable automatic cluster version upgrade (finalization) and it will be used with automatic upgrade at both storage-level and virtual cluster level (each has its own setting value though). Epic: CRDB-20860 [#102427][#102427]

<h4 id="v23-2-0-alpha-4-changes-without-release-note-annotation">Changes without release note annotation</h4>

- [#112589][#112589] [3c7f14f25][3c7f14f25] Revert "release-23.2: set devBranch to false and version.txt for beta.1" (Celia La <celia@cockroachlabs.com>)
- [#112457][#112457] [f01e82b38][f01e82b38]  (Yahor Yuzefovich <yahor@cockroachlabs.com>)

<h3 id="v23-2-0-alpha-4-doc-updates">Doc updates</h3>

{% comment %}Docs team: Please add these manually.{% endcomment %}

<div class="release-note-contributors" markdown="1">

<h3 id="v23-2-0-alpha-4-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 213 merged PRs by 51 authors.
We would like to thank the following contributors from the CockroachDB community:

- Darryl Wong (first-time contributor, CockroachDB team member)
- David Hartunian (first-time contributor, CockroachDB team member)
- Finn Mattis (first-time contributor)
- Mark Sirek (first-time contributor, CockroachDB team member)
- craig
- rharding6373

</div>

[#102427]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/102427
[#110366]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/110366
[#110593]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/110593
[#110870]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/110870
[#110901]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/110901
[#111197]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/111197
[#111258]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/111258
[#111283]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/111283
[#111303]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/111303
[#111318]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/111318
[#111330]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/111330
[#111337]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/111337
[#111392]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/111392
[#111443]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/111443
[#111568]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/111568
[#111578]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/111578
[#111609]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/111609
[#111685]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/111685
[#111735]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/111735
[#111759]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/111759
[#111769]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/111769
[#111788]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/111788
[#111798]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/111798
[#111822]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/111822
[#111833]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/111833
[#111867]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/111867
[#111873]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/111873
[#111911]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/111911
[#111979]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/111979
[#112021]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/112021
[#112050]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/112050
[#112138]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/112138
[#112255]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/112255
[#112457]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/112457
[#112494]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/112494
[#112589]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/112589
[#112644]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/112644
[3c7f14f25]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/3c7f14f25
[f01e82b38]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/f01e82b38
