## v23.2.0-beta.3

Release Date: December 13, 2023

{% include releases/release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v23-2-0-beta-3-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- Added the `sql.ttl.default_select_rate_limit` [cluster setting](../v23.2/cluster-settings.html) and the `ttl_select_rate_limit` [table storage parameter](../v23.2/with-storage-parameter.html#table-parameters) to set the TTL select rate limit. This sets the number of records per table per second per node that can be selected by the TTL job. [#115802][#115802]

<h3 id="v23-2-0-beta-3-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug that could result in an incorrect `too few columns` error for queries that use `ANY <array>` syntax with a subquery. [#115592][#115592]
- Fixed a bug that could cause `too few columns`/`too many columns` errors for queries that used `IN` or `NOT IN` with a non-trivial right operand, such as a subquery (rather than a constant tuple). [#115592][#115592]
- Fixed a bug where [`CREATE INDEX`](../v23.2/create-index.html) with expressions could fail on materialized [views](../v23.2/views.html) when the declarative schema changer was used. [#115522][#115522]
- Fixed a bug that could cause PL/pgSQL routines with `SELECT INTO` syntax to return early. This bug existed only in pre-release versions v23.2.0-beta.1 and v23.2.0-beta.2. [#115676][#115676]
- Fixed a bug that could cause side effects to happen out of order for PL/pgSQL routines in rare cases. This bug existed only in v23.2 alpha and beta pre-release versions. [#115840][#115840]
- Previously, in rare cases, CockroachDB could incorrectly evaluate queries with lookup [joins](../v23.2/joins.html) where `equality cols are key` when performing lookups on multiple ranges. This could either manifest as a stuck query or result in incorrect output. The bug was introduced in v22.2 and is now fixed. [#115580][#115580]
- Fixed a durability bug in Raft log storage that was caused by incorrect syncing of filesystem metadata. It was possible to lose writes of a particular kind (`AddSSTable`) used by (e.g.) `RESTORE`. This loss was possible only under power-off or OS crash conditions. As a result, CockroachDB could enter a crash loop on restart. In the worst case of a coordinated power-off/crash across multiple nodes, this could lead to an unrecoverable loss of quorum. [#115841][#115841]
- Fixed a bug where large jobs running with execution locality could result in the [gateway node](../v23.2/architecture/sql-layer.html#gateway-node) being assigned most of the work causing performance degradation and cluster instability. [#115876][#115876]

<div class="release-note-contributors" markdown="1">

<h3 id="v23-2-0-beta-3-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 26 merged PRs by 20 authors.

</div>

[#115522]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115522
[#115580]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115580
[#115592]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115592
[#115676]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115676
[#115802]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115802
[#115840]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115840
[#115841]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115841
[#115876]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115876
