## v23.2.1

Release Date: February 20, 2024

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v23-2-1-security-updates">Security updates</h3>

- Introduced the `server.redact_sensitive_settings.enabled` [cluster setting]({% link v23.2/cluster-settings.md %}), which is false by default. If set to `true`, then the values of the following settings will be redacted when accessed through `SHOW` commands or other introspection interfaces. In the future, any other sensitive cluster settings that are added will be redacted as well. Users who have the `MODIFYCLUSTERSETTING` [privilege](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.2/security-reference/authorization#managing-privileges) can always view the unredacted settings. [#117729][#117729]
    - `server.oidc_authentication.client_id`
    - `server.oidc_authentication.client_secret`
- If the `server.redact_sensitive_settings.enabled` [cluster setting]({% link v23.2/cluster-settings.md %}) is set to `true`, then the `MANAGEVIRTUALCLUSTER` [privilege](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.2/security-reference/authorization#managing-privileges) is required to view the values of the per-virtual-cluster overrides for sensitive cluster settings. [#117729][#117729]
- The [DB Console]({% link v23.2/ui-overview.md %}) `session` cookie is now marked `HttpOnly` to prevent it from being read by any JavaScript code. [#119249][#119249]
- [DB Console]({% link v23.2/ui-overview.md %}) cookies are marked `Secure` for the browser when the cluster is running in secure mode. [#119249][#119249]

<h3 id="v23-2-1-general-changes">General changes</h3>

- Updated Go version to 1.21.3. [#115339][#115339]

<h3 id="v23-2-1-{{-site.data.products.enterprise-}}-edition-changes">{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} edition changes</h3>

- Added a new [SQL function]({% link v23.2/functions-and-operators.md %}) `fips_ready`, which can be used to verify the [FIPS]({% link v23.2/fips.md %}) readiness of the [gateway node](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.2/architecture/life-of-a-distributed-transaction#gateway). [#115202][#115202]
- [Physical Cluster Replication (PCR)]({% link v23.2/physical-cluster-replication-overview.md %}) now retries for approximately 3 minutes before failing. This is increased from 20 µs. [#116402][#116402]
- Fixed a bug where [changefeeds]({% link v23.2/create-and-configure-changefeeds.md %}) that targeted schema-locked tables could fail due to a very old highwater timestamp being incorrectly persisted. [#117961][#117961]
- Fixed a bug where creating a [changefeed]({% link v23.2/create-and-configure-changefeeds.md %}) that targeted tables with a [`DECIMAL(n)`]({% link v23.2/decimal.md %}) column (i.e., zero-scale `DECIMAL` column), `format='avro'`, and `diff` would cause a panic. [#118895][#118895]

<h3 id="v23-2-1-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- Added the `sql.ttl.default_select_rate_limit` [cluster setting]({% link v23.2/cluster-settings.md %}) and the `ttl_select_rate_limit` table [storage parameter]({% link v23.2/row-level-ttl.md %}#ttl-storage-parameters) to set the [TTL]({% link v23.2/row-level-ttl.md %}) select rate limit. This sets the number of records per table per second per node that can be selected by the [TTL job]({% link v23.2/row-level-ttl.md %}#view-scheduled-ttl-jobs). [#115801][#115801]
- Fixed a bug in [PL/pgSQL]({% link v23.2/plpgsql.md %}) where altering the name of a [sequence]({% link v23.2/create-sequence.md %}) or [user-defined type (UDT)]({% link v23.2/create-type.md %}) that was used in a PL/pgSQL [function]({% link v23.2/user-defined-functions.md %}) or [procedure]({% link v23.2/stored-procedures.md %}) could break them. This bug was only present in v23.2 alpha and beta releases. [#116419][#116419]
- Added support for [`IMPORT INTO`]({% link v23.2/import-into.md %}) on a table that has columns typed as [arrays]({% link v23.2/array.md %}) of [user-defined types]({% link v23.2/create-type.md %}) (like [enums]({% link v23.2/enum.md %})). Tables that use multiple user-defined types with the same name but different [schemas]({% link v23.2/create-schema.md %}) are still unsupported. [#116359][#116359]
- The new [`SELECT FOR UPDATE`]({% link v23.2/select-for-update.md %}) implementation used under [Read Committed isolation]({% link v23.2/read-committed.md %}) (and under [Serializable isolation]({% link v23.2/demo-serializable.md %}) when the `optimizer_use_lock_op_for_serializable` [session variable]({% link v23.2/session-variables.md %}) is `true`) now locks all [column families]({% link v23.2/column-families.md %}) instead of only the first column family. [#116826][#116826]
- Fixed a bug where [`SELECT FOR UPDATE`]({% link v23.2/select-for-update.md %}) under [Read Committed isolation]({% link v23.2/read-committed.md %}) on multi-column-family tables was not locking [column families]({% link v23.2/column-families.md %}) containing only key columns. [#116826][#116826]
- It is now possible to run [`CALL`]({% link v23.2/call.md %}) statements with [`EXPLAIN`]({% link v23.2/explain.md %}). The `EXPLAIN (OPT)` variant will show the body of the procedure, while other variants will only show the procedure name and arguments. [#116274][#116274]
- [`EXPLAIN`]({% link v23.2/explain.md %}) output now contains detailed information about the plans for `CASCADE` actions. [#117719][#117719]

<h3 id="v23-2-1-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- Per-node [hot ranges]({% link v23.2/ui-hot-ranges-page.md %}) logging now logs the top 5 hot ranges on the local node instead of the top 5 hot ranges cluster-wide. [#118334][#118334]

<h3 id="v23-2-1-command-line-changes">Command-line changes</h3>

- Added a new command `cockroach debug enterprise-check-fips`, which diagnoses errors in [FIPS]({% link v23.2/fips.md %}) deployments. [#115202][#115202]
- The new flag `--enterprise-require-fips-ready` can be added to any [`cockroach` command]({% link v23.2/cockroach-commands.md %}) to prevent startup if certain prerequisites for [FIPS]({% link v23.2/fips.md %}) compliance are not met. [#115202][#115202]
- [`cockroach workload`]({% link v23.2/cockroach-workload.md %}) commands now appropriately invoke `.Close` in the case of an error. [#116487][#116487]

<h3 id="v23-2-1-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- Updated the "CPU Time" label on the [Runtime Dashboard]({% link v23.2/ui-runtime-dashboard.md %}) to "SQL CPU Time" and added clarifications to its tooltip. [#116449][#116449]
- [Statement bundles]({% link v23.2/ui-statements-page.md %}#diagnostics) are now enabled for Serverless clusters. [#117529][#117529]
- The [Networking Dashboard]({% link v23.2/ui-networking-dashboard.md %}) is enhanced with charts that visualize number of packets received, number of receiving packets with error, number of receiving packets that got dropped, number of packets sent, number of sending packets with error, and number of sending packets that got dropped. [#116712][#116712]
- The [Explain Plans]({% link v23.2/ui-statements-page.md %}#explain-plans) tab is now shown for the [Statements]({% link v23.2/ui-statements-page.md %}) and [Insights]({% link v23.2/ui-insights-page.md %}) pages, for Serverless clusters. [#118169][#118169]

<h3 id="v23-2-1-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a durability bug in [Raft log](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.2/architecture/replication-layer#raft) storage, caused by incorrect syncing of filesystem metadata. Previously, it was possible to lose writes of a particular kind (`AddSSTable`) that were used by e.g. [`RESTORE`]({% link v23.2/restore.md %}). This loss was possible only under power-off or operating system crash conditions. Under such conditions, CockroachDB could enter a crash loop on node restart. In the worst case of a coordinated power-off/crash across multiple nodes this could lead to an unrecoverable loss of [Raft quorum](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.2/architecture/replication-layer#raft). [#115709][#115709]
- Fixed a bug where large [jobs]({% link v23.2/show-jobs.md %}) running with execution locality (such as some [changefeeds]({% link v23.2/changefeeds-in-multi-region-deployments.md %}#run-a-changefeed-job-by-locality)) could result in the [gateway](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.2/architecture/life-of-a-distributed-transaction#gateway) node being assigned most of the work, causing performance degradation and cluster instability. [#115388][#115388]
- Fixed a bug that caused node crashes and panics when running [`INSERT`]({% link v23.2/insert.md %}) queries on [`REGIONAL BY ROW` tables with `UNIQUE` constraints or indexes]({% link v23.2/alter-table.md %}#add-a-unique-index-to-a-regional-by-row-table). The bug was only present in v23.2.0-beta.1. [#115668][#115668]
- Fixed a bug that existed only in v23.2 alpha and beta versions that could have caused side effects to happen out of order for [PL/pgSQL]({% link v23.2/plpgsql.md %}) routines in rare cases. [#115839][#115839]
- Fixed a bug that existed since v23.1 that prevented naming [user-defined type (UDT)]({% link v23.2/create-type.md %}) parameters when dropping a [user-defined function]({% link v23.2/user-defined-functions.md %}) (or procedure). [#115904][#115904]
- Fixed a bug where [scheduled jobs]({% link v23.2/show-schedules.md %}) using [external storage providers]({% link v23.2/create-external-connection.md %}) could fail shortly after node startup. [#115693][#115693]
- Locking tables (e.g., with [`SELECT FOR UPDATE`]({% link v23.2/select-for-update.md %})) on the null-extended side of [outer joins]({% link v23.2/joins.md %}) (e.g., the right side of a `LEFT JOIN`) is now disallowed and returns an error. This improves compatibility with PostgreSQL and prevents ambiguity in [locking semantics](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.2/architecture/transaction-layer#concurrency-control). This bug has existed since locking with `FOR UPDATE` was introduced. [#115878][#115878]
- Fixed a display bug in the [DB Console]({% link v23.2/ui-overview.md %}) where because not all types of [schema changes]({% link v23.2/online-schema-changes.md %}) are setting the value for the mutation ID, the value of the ID could previously show as "with ID undefined" on the [Events panel]({% link v23.2/ui-overview-dashboard.md %}#events-panel). Now, the notification omits the undefined value (the rest of the event notification is still displayed). [#116518][#116518]
- Fixed the formatting for [PL/pgSQL]({% link v23.2/plpgsql.md %}) routines, which could prevent creating a routine with [loop labels]({% link v23.2/create-procedure.md %}#create-a-stored-procedure-that-uses-a-while-loop), and could prevent some expressions from being [redacted]({% link v23.2/configure-logs.md %}#redact-logs) correctly. The bug only existed in v23.2 alpha and beta releases. [#116713][#116713]
- Fixed a bug that would cause a syntax error during [redaction]({% link v23.2/configure-logs.md %}#redact-logs) of a [PL/pgSQL]({% link v23.2/plpgsql.md %}) routine. The bug existed only in v23.2 alpha and beta releases. [#116713][#116713]
- Fixed a bug that would cause syntax errors when attempting to [`RESTORE`]({% link v23.2/restore.md %}) a database with [PL/pgSQL]({% link v23.2/plpgsql.md %}) [user-defined functions (UDFs)]({% link v23.2/user-defined-functions.md %}) or [stored procedures]({% link v23.2/stored-procedures.md %}). This bug only affected v23.2 alpha and beta releases. [#116713][#116713]
- [`UPDATE`]({% link v23.2/update.md %}), [`UPSERT`]({% link v23.2/upsert.md %}), and [`INSERT ON CONFLICT`]({% link v23.2/insert.md %}#on-conflict-clause) queries are now disallowed under [Read Committed isolation]({% link v23.2/read-committed.md %}) when the table contains a [check constraint]({% link v23.2/check.md %}) involving a [column family]({% link v23.2/column-families.md %}) that is updated, and the check constraint also involves a column family that is **not** updated, but **is** read. This is a temporary fix to prevent possible violation of the check constraint, and the restriction will be lifted in the future. [#116428][#116428]
- Previously, all `AggHistogram`-powered metrics were not reporting quantiles properly in the [DB Console]({% link v23.2/ui-overview.md %}). This patch fixes the histograms so that the quantiles in DB Console are reported correctly. these histograms were only broken in the [DB Console metrics dashboards]({% link v23.2/ui-overview-dashboard.md %}), but were **not** broken in the [Prometheus-compatible endpoint]({% link v23.2/monitoring-and-alerting.md %}#prometheus-endpoint), `/_status/vars`. The list of affected metrics is shown below. [#114506][#114506]
  - `changefeed.message_size_hist`
  - `changefeed.parallel_io_queue_nanos`
  - `changefeed.sink_batch_hist_nanos`
  - `changefeed.flush_hist_nanos`
  - `changefeed.commit_latency`
  - `changefeed.admit_latency`
  - `jobs.row_level_ttl.span_total_duration`
  - `jobs.row_level_ttl.select_duration`
  - `jobs.row_level_ttl.delete_duration`
- Fixed a bug introduced in v23.2 that caused internal errors and panics when certain SQL queries were run with automatic [index recommendation]({% link v23.2/ui-databases-page.md %}#index-recommendations) collection enabled. [#117453][#117453]
- [Standard indexes]({% link v23.2/indexes.md %}) and [inverted indexes]({% link v23.2/inverted-indexes.md %}) may no longer be created on [PL/pgSQL]({% link v23.2/plpgsql.md %}) `REFCURSOR[]`s columns. `REFCURSOR` columns themselves are not indexable. [#116071][#116071]
- Fixed a bug that prevented database [`RESTORE`]({% link v23.2/restore.md %}) when the database contained a [view]({% link v23.2/views.md %}) or [routine]({% link v23.2/create-procedure.md %}) that referenced a [user-defined type (UDT)]({% link v23.2/create-type.md %}) in the body string. For views, this bug was introduced in v20.2, when [user-defined types (UDTs)]({% link v23.2/create-type.md %}) were introduced. For routines, this bug was introduced in v22.2, when user-defined functions (UDFs) were introduced. [#116841][#116841]
- Fixed a bug that could cause a function resolution error when attempting to use a [builtin function]({% link v23.2/functions-and-operators.md %}) like `now()` as a formatting argument to a [PL/pgSQL]({% link v23.2/plpgsql.md %}) `RAISE` statement. [#116825][#116825]
- Fixed a bug where CDC custom key columns did not function correctly with [CDC queries]({% link v23.2/create-and-configure-changefeeds.md %}). For example, `CREATE CHANGEFEED WITH key_column=..., unordered AS SELECT * FROM table` now works correctly instead of retrying forever. Note that some functionalities with CDC custom keys are not fully supported, see [#115267][#115267] for more details. [#116967][#116967]
- Fixed a bug in [Raft log](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.2/architecture/replication-layer#raft) truncation that could lead to crash loops, and unrecoverable loss of [quorum](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.2/architecture/replication-layer#raft) in the unlikely worst case that all [replicas](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.2/architecture/overview#architecture-replica) enter this crash loop. The bug manifested when a few things coincided: The cluster was running a bulk write workload (e.g., [schema change]({% link v23.2/online-schema-changes.md %}), [import]({% link v23.2/copy-from.md %}), [`RESTORE`]({% link v23.2/restore.md %})); a log truncation command was running; and the process crashed at an unfortunate moment (e.g., the process was killed, or killed itself for reasons like detecting a [disk stall]({% link v23.2/cluster-setup-troubleshooting.md %}#disk-stalls)). [#116574][#116574]
- Fixed the value used for the total runtime on SQL statistics. This was using the wrong value previously, causing the [SQL Activity]({% link v23.2/ui-overview.md %}#sql-activity) page to display values with more than 100%. [#117426][#117426]
- Fixed a bug where trying to set an empty `search_path` [session variable]({% link v23.2/session-variables.md %}) resulted in an error. [#117557][#117557]
- It is now possible to assign to the parameter of a [PL/pgSQL]({% link v23.2/plpgsql.md %}) [routine]({% link v23.2/create-procedure.md %}). Previously, attempts to do this would result in a "variable not found" error at routine creation time. In addition, variable shadowing is now explicitly disabled, where previously it would cause an internal error. These bugs existed in the v23.2.0 release and the v23.2 pre-release versions. [#117715][#117715]
- Fixed a bug in the [row-level TTL]({% link v23.2/row-level-ttl.md %}) [job]({% link v23.2/show-schedules.md %}) that would cause it to skip expired rows if the [primary key]({% link v23.2/primary-key.md %}) of the table included columns of the [collated string]({% link v23.2/collate.md %}) type. This bug was present since the initial release of row-level TTL in v22.2.0. [#117512][#117512]
- Fixed a bug where concurrent [`GRANT`]({% link v23.2/grant.md %}) statements can cause deadlocks. [#117713][#117713]
- CockroachDB can now transparently retry more retryable errors when performing a non-atomic [`COPY`]({% link v23.2/copy-from.md %}) command. [#117895][#117895]
- Fixed a bug that caused [DML statements]({% link v23.2/performance-best-practices-overview.md %}#dml-best-practices) to fail while a [hash-sharded index]({% link v23.2/hash-sharded-indexes.md %}) was being created. The symptom of this bug was an error like `column "crdb_internal_val_shard_16" does not exist`. This bug was present since v23.1.0. [#118215][#118215]
- Previously, CockroachDB could encounter the error `unable to encode table key: *tree.DTSQuery` when operating on columns with the internal `TSQuery` type in some contexts (e.g., when collecting [table statistics]({% link v23.2/cost-based-optimizer.md %}#table-statistics) or when performing a [`DISTINCT` operation]({% link v23.2/select-clause.md %}#eliminate-duplicate-rows)). This is now fixed. The bug had been present since v23.1 when support for the internal `TSQuery` type was added. [#118321][#118321]
- Previously, in some cases CockroachDB could incorrectly evaluate queries that scanned an [inverted index]({% link v23.2/inverted-indexes.md %}) and had a [`WHERE` filter]({% link v23.2/select-clause.md %}#where-clause) in which two sides of the `AND` expression had "similar" expressions (e.g., `ARRAY['str1'] <@ col AND (ARRAY['str1'] && col OR ...)`); this is now fixed. The bug had been present since prior to v22.2. [#118360][#118360]
- Fixed a bug that could cause [`DELETE`]({% link v23.2/delete.md %}) queries sent by the [row-level TTL]({% link v23.2/row-level-ttl.md %}) [job]({% link v23.2/show-schedules.md %}) to use a [secondary index]({% link v23.2/indexes.md %}) rather than the [primary index]({% link v23.2/primary-key.md %}) to find the rows to delete. This could lead to some `DELETE` operations taking a much longer time than they should. This bug was present since v22.2.0. [#118337][#118337]
- Fixed an issue with missing data on SQL statistics, and consequently missing data on the [SQL Activity page]({% link v23.2/ui-overview.md %}#sql-activity), by properly recalculating the value from the current and past hour on the top activity table. [#118378][#118378]
- Internal queries issued by the [row-level TTL]({% link v23.2/row-level-ttl.md %}) [jobs]({% link v23.2/show-schedules.md %}) should now use optimal plans. The bug has been present since at least v22.2. [#118494][#118494]
- Fixed a bug where a [changefeed](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.2/change-data-capture-overview.html) could omit events in rare cases, logging the error `cdc ux violation: detected timestamp ... that is less or equal to the local frontier`. This could happen in the following scenario:
    1. A [rangefeed](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.2/create-and-configure-changefeeds.html#enable-rangefeeds) runs on a follower [replica](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.2/architecture/glossary#cockroachdb-architecture-terms) that lags significantly behind the [leaseholder](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.2/architecture/glossary#cockroachdb-architecture-terms).
    1. A transaction commits and removes its [transaction record](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.2/architecture/transaction-layer#transaction-records) before its [intent](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.2/architecture/transaction-layer#writing) resolution is applied on the follower.
    1. The follower's [closed timestamp](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.2/architecture/transaction-layer#closed-timestamps) has advanced past the transaction commit timestamp.
    1. The rangefeed attempts to push the transaction to a new timestamp (at least 10 seconds after the transaction began).
    1. This may cause the rangefeed to prematurely emit a checkpoint before emitting writes at lower timestamps, which in turn may cause the [changefeed]({% link v23.2/change-data-capture-overview.md %}) to drop these events entirely, never emitting them. [#118981][#118981]

<div class="release-note-contributors" markdown="1">

<h3 id="v23-2-1-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 252 merged PRs by 60 authors.

</div>

[#114506]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/114506
[#115202]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115202
[#115339]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115339
[#115388]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115388
[#115668]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115668
[#115693]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115693
[#115709]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115709
[#115801]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115801
[#115839]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115839
[#115878]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115878
[#115904]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115904
[#116071]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/116071
[#116274]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/116274
[#116359]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/116359
[#116402]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/116402
[#116419]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/116419
[#116428]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/116428
[#116449]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/116449
[#116487]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/116487
[#116518]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/116518
[#116574]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/116574
[#116599]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/116599
[#116712]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/116712
[#116713]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/116713
[#116825]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/116825
[#116826]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/116826
[#116841]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/116841
[#116945]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/116945
[#116967]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/116967
[#117324]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117324
[#117325]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117325
[#117330]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117330
[#117426]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117426
[#117453]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117453
[#117512]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117512
[#117529]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117529
[#117557]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117557
[#117594]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117594
[#117713]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117713
[#117715]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117715
[#117719]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117719
[#117729]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117729
[#117895]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117895
[#117961]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117961
[#118154]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118154
[#118169]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118169
[#118215]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118215
[#118257]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118257
[#118321]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118321
[#118334]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118334
[#118337]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118337
[#118360]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118360
[#118378]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118378
[#118494]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118494
[#118895]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118895
[#118981]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118981
[#115267]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115267
[#119249]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/119249
