## v23.2.17

Release Date: December 12, 2024

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v23-2-17-security-updates">Security updates</h3>

- All cluster settings that accept strings are now fully redacted when transmitted as part of Cockroach Labs' diagnostics telemetry. The payload includes a record of modified cluster settings and their values when they are not strings. If you previously applied the mitigations in Technical Advisory 133479, you can safely set the value of cluster setting `server.redact_sensitive_settings.enabled` to `false` and turn on diagnostic reporting via the `diagnostics.reporting.enabled` cluster setting without leaking sensitive cluster setting values.

<h3 id="v23-2-17-general-changes">General changes</h3>

- `COCKROACH_SKIP_ENABLING_DIAGNOSTIC_REPORTING` is no longer mentioned in the `cockroach demo` command.

<h3 id="v23-2-17-{{-site.data.products.enterprise-}}-edition-changes">{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} edition changes</h3>

- Added `system.users` to the list of system tables that changefeeds protect with protected timestamps (PTS). This table is required for CDC queries.

<h3 id="v23-2-17-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- Added a new cluster setting `ui.database_locality_metadata.enabled`, which allows operators to disable loading extended database and table region information in the DB Console's Databases and Table Details pages. This information can cause significant CPU load on large clusters with many ranges. Versions of this page from v24.3 onwards do not have this problem. If you require this data, you can use the `SHOW RANGES FROM {DATABASE| TABLE}` query via SQL to compute on-demand.

<h3 id="v23-2-17-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Previously, CockroachDB could encounter an internal error of the form `interface conversion: coldata.Column is` in an edge case. This is now fixed. The bug was present in versions v22.2.13 and later, v23.1.9 and later, and v23.2 and later.
- Fixed a bug that caused incorrect `NOT NULL` constraint violation errors on `UPSERT` and `INSERT ... ON CONFLICT ... DO UPDATE` statements when those statements updated an existing row and a subset of columns that did not include a `NOT NULL` column of the table. This bug had been present since at least v20.1.0.
- Fixed an unhandled error that could occur when using `REVOKE ... ON SEQUENCE ... FROM user` on an object that was not a sequence.
- Addressed a panic that could occur inside `CREATE TABLE AS` that occurred if sequence builtin expressions had invalid function overloads.
- String constants can now be compared against collated strings.
- Previously, when executing queries with index or lookup joins when the ordering needed to be maintained, CockroachDB in some cases could get into a pathological state which would lead to increased query latency, possibly by several orders of magnitude. This bug was introduced in v22.2 and is now fixed.
- Addressed a bug with `DROP CASCADE` that would occasionally panic with an `un-dropped backref` message on partitioned tables.
- Reduced the duration of partitions in the gossip network when a node crashes. This eliminates false positives in the `ranges.unavailable` metric.
- An error message is no longer returned when a non-admin user runs `DROP ROLE IF EXISTS` on a user that does not exist.
- Fixed a bug that could cause incorrect query results when the optimizer planned a lookup join on an index containing a column of type `CHAR(N)`, `VARCHAR(N)`, `BIT(N)`, `VARBIT(N)`, or `DECIMAL(M, N)`, and the query held that column constant to a single value (e.g., with an equality filter).
- Fixed an unhandled error that would occur if `DROP SCHEMA` was executed on the `public` schema of the `system` database, or on an internal schema like `pg_catalog` or `information_schema`.
- Fixed a bug that caused incorrect evaluation of some binary expressions involving `CHAR(N)` values and untyped string literals with trailing whitespace characters. For example, the expression `'f'::CHAR = 'f '` now correctly evaluates to `true`.

<h3 id="v23-2-17-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- CockroachDB now avoids loading unnecessary file blocks shortly after a rebalance in a rare case.
- Reduced the write-amplification impact of rebalances by splitting snapshot sstable files into smaller ones before ingesting them into Pebble.
