## v23.2.0-alpha.6

Release Date: November 7, 2023

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v23-2-0-alpha-6-general-changes">General changes</h3>

- The CockroachDB Docker image is now based on [Red Hat's ubi9/ubi-minimal image](https://catalog.redhat.com/software/containers/ubi9/ubi-minimal/615bd9b4075b022acc111bf5?architecture=amd64&image=652fc5a903899c8ddcf105be) instead of the ubi8/ubi-minimal image.

<h3 id="v23-2-0-alpha-6-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- Added the built-in [function](../v23.2/functions-and-operators.html) `jsonb_array_to_string_array` that converts [`JSONB`](../v23.2/jsonb.html) array to [`STRING`](../v23.2/string.html) array.
- The built-in [function](../v23.2/functions-and-operators.html) `jsonb_array_to_string_array` can now return [`NULL`](../v23.2/null-handling.html) objects.

<h3 id="v23-2-0-alpha-6-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- Introduced the [cluster setting](../v23.2/cluster-settings.html) `kv.gc.sticky_hint.enabled` that helps expediting [garbage collection](../v23.2/architecture/storage-layer.html#garbage-collection) after range deletions. For example, when a SQL table or index is dropped. `kv.gc.sticky_hint.enabled` is enabled by default in v23.2. The setting has been deprecated in v23.2.
- Introduced a new [environment variable](../v23.2/set-vars.html) that allows an operator to configure the [compaction](../v23.2/architecture/storage-layer.html#compaction) concurrency.
- [Debug zip](../v23.2/cockroach-debug-zip.html) will now collect the active traces of all running or reverting traceable jobs. This includes [restores](../v23.2/restore.html), [imports](../v23.2/import.html), [backups](../v23.2/backup.html), and [physical cluster replication](../v23.2/physical-cluster-replication-overview.html).

<h3 id="v23-2-0-alpha-6-cluster-virtualization">Cluster virtualization</h3>

- The [privilege](../v23.2/security-reference/authorization.html#supported-privileges) that controls access to `CREATE VIRTUAL CLUSTER` and other virtual cluster management syntax is now called `MANAGEVIRTUALCLUSTER`.

<h3 id="v23-2-0-alpha-6-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug that could prevent [`RESTORE`](../v23.2/restore.html) from working if it was performed during a cluster upgrade.
- Fixed a bug where the opclass for a [trigram index](../v23.2/trigram-indexes.html) is not shown if CockroachDB creates a trigram index and later displays it via [`SHOW CREATE TABLE`](../v23.2/show-create.html).
- Fixed a bug where CockroachDB could incorrectly evaluate [lookup](../v23.2/joins.html#lookup-joins) and index [joins](../v23.2/joins.html) into tables with at least three [column families](../v23.2/column-families.html). This would result in either the `non-nullable column with no value` internal error, or the query would return incorrect results. This bug was introduced in v22.2.
- Fixed a bug where [`ALTER PRIMARY KEY`](../v23.2/alter-table.html#alter-primary-key) would incorrectly disable [secondary indexes](../v23.2/schema-design-indexes.html) while new secondary indexes were being backfilled when using the [declarative schema changer](../v23.2/online-schema-changes.html).
- Fixed a bug where the `unique_constraint_catalog` and `unique_constraint_schema` columns in [`information_schema.referential_constraints`](../v23.2/information-schema.html#referential_constraints) could be incorrect for cross schema or cross database references.
- Fixed a bug in a method that was used by some of the [jobs](../v23.2/show-jobs.html) observability infrastructure. This method could be triggered if a file was overwritten with a different chunking strategy.
- Fixed a bug where the result of [`SHOW CREATE TABLE`](../v23.2/show-create.html) for a table that had a [collated string column](../v23.2/collate.html) with a default expression was incorrect because the statement could not be parsed.
- Fixed the SQL activity update job to: avoid conflicts on update, reduce the amount of data cached to only what the overview page requires, and fix the correctness of the top queries.
- Fixed a bug that could prevent [physical cluster replication](../v23.2/physical-cluster-replication-overview.html) from advancing in the face of some range deletion operations.
- Fixed a bug where [`ALTER TYPE`](../v23.2/alter-type.html) could get stuck if [`DROP TYPE`](../v23.2/drop-type.html) was executed concurrently.
- Fixed a bug that could cause internal errors or panics while attempting to forecast [statistics](../v23.2/show-statistics.html) on a numeric column.
- Rolled back deletes no longer cause a discrepancy between computed statistics and the actual stored values.

<h3 id="v23-2-0-alpha-7-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- Addressed a performance regression that can happen when the declarative [schema changer](../v23.2/online-schema-changes.html) is used to create an index with a concurrent workload.

<h3 id="v23-2-0-alpha-6-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 117 merged PRs by 49 authors.
