## v23.2.12

Release Date: September 25, 2024

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v23-2-12-{{-site.data.products.enterprise-}}-edition-changes">{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} edition changes</h3>

 Added a `changefeed.protect_timestamp.lag` metric, which controls how much the changefeed [protected timestamp (PTS)]({% link v23.2/protect-changefeed-data.md %}) should lag behind the [high-water mark]({% link v23.2/how-does-an-enterprise-changefeed-work.md %}). A changefeed now only updates its PTS if `changefeed.protect_timestamp.lag` has passed between the last PTS and the changefeed high-water mark.
- [`SHOW CHANGEFEED JOB`]({% link v23.2/show-jobs.md %}#show-changefeed-jobs), [`SHOW CHANGEFEED JOBS`]({% link v23.2/show-jobs.md %}#show-changefeed-jobs), and [`SHOW JOBS`]({% link v23.2/show-jobs.md %}) no longer expose user sensitive information like `client_key`.

<h3 id="v23-2-12-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- The [session setting]({% link v23.2/session-variables.md %}) `plan_cache_mode=force_generic_plan` can now be used to force prepared statements to use a query plan that is [optimized]({% link v23.2/cost-based-optimizer.md %}) once and reused in future executions without re-optimization, as long as the plan does not become stale due to [schema changes]({% link v23.2/online-schema-changes.md %}) or a collection of new [table statistics]({% link v23.2/show-statistics.md %}). The setting takes effect during [`EXECUTE`]({% link v23.2/sql-grammar.md %}#execute_stmt) commands. [`EXPLAIN ANALYZE`]({% link v23.2/explain-analyze.md %}) now includes a `plan type` field. If a generic query plan is optimized for the current execution, the `plan type` will be `generic, re-optimized`. If a generic query plan is reused for the current execution without performing optimization, the `plan type` will be `generic, reused`. Otherwise, the `plan type` will be `custom`.
- The [session setting]({% link v23.2/session-variables.md %}) `plan_cache_mode=auto` can now be used to instruct the [cost-based optimizer]({% link v23.2/cost-based-optimizer.md %}) to automatically determine whether to use "custom" or "generic" query plans for the execution of a prepared statement. Custom query plans are optimized on every execution, while generic plans are optimized once and reused on future executions as-is. Generic query plans are beneficial in cases where query optimization contributes significant overhead to the total cost of executing a query.

<h3 id="v23-2-12-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- There are now structured logging events that report connection breakage during [node shutdown]({% link v23.2/node-shutdown.md %}). Previously, these logs existed but were unstructured. These logs appear in the `OPS` [logging channel]({% link v23.2/logging-overview.md %}#logging-channels). There are two new events:
  - The `node_shutdown_connection_timeout` event is logged after the timeout defined by the [cluster setting `server.shutdown.connections.timeout`]({% link v23.2/cluster-settings.md %}#setting-server-shutdown-connection-wait) transpires, if there are still open SQL connections.
  - The `node_shutdown_transaction_timeout` event is logged after the timeout defined by the [cluster setting `server.shutdown.transactions.timeout` transpires]({% link v23.2/cluster-settings.md %}#setting-server-shutdown-query-wait), if there are still open [transactions]({% link v23.2/transactions.md %}) on those SQL connections.
- Added the `ranges.decommissioning` metric, representing the number of [ranges]({% link v23.2/architecture/overview.md %}#architecture-range) which have a [replica]({% link v23.2/architecture/overview.md %}#architecture-replica) on a [decommissioning node]({% link v23.2/cockroach-node.md %}#decommission-nodes).
- Added three new network tracking metrics:
  - `rpc.connection.connected` is the number of rRPC TCP-level connections established to remote nodes.
  - `rpc.client.bytes.egress` is the number of TCP bytes sent via gRPC on connections we initiated.
  - `rpc.client.bytes.ingress` is the number of TCP bytes received via gRPC on connections we initiated. [cockroachdb/cockroach#130712][#130712]
- Added a new configuration parameter `server.cidr_mapping_url`, which maps IPv4 CIDR blocks to arbitrary tag names.
- Modified metrics `sql.bytesin` and `sql.bytesout` to be aggregation metrics If the [`server.child_metrics.enabled`]({% link v23.2/cluster-settings.md %}#setting-server-child-metrics-enabled) cluster setting is enabled.
- Added two network metrics, `changefeed.network.bytes_in` and `changefeed.network.bytes_out`. These metrics track the number of bytes sent by individual [changefeeds]({% link v23.2/create-and-configure-changefeeds.md %}) to the following sinks:
  - [Kafka sinks]({% link v23.2/changefeed-sinks.md %}#kafka). If the [`server.child_metrics.enabled`]({% link v23.2/cluster-settings.md %}#setting-server-child-metrics-enabled) cluster setting is enabled, the metric will have a `kafka` label.
  - [Webhook sinks]({% link v23.2/changefeed-sinks.md %}#webhook-sink). If the [`server.child_metrics.enabled`]({% link v23.2/cluster-settings.md %}#setting-server-child-metrics-enabled) cluster setting is enabled, the metric will have a `webhook` label.
  - [Pub/Sub sinks]({% link v23.2/changefeed-sinks.md %}#google-cloud-pub-sub). If the [`server.child_metrics.enabled`]({% link v23.2/cluster-settings.md %}#setting-server-child-metrics-enabled) cluster setting is enabled, the metric will have a `pubsub` label.
  - [SQL sink]({% link v23.2/changefeed-for.md %}). If the [`server.child_metrics.enabled`]({% link v23.2/cluster-settings.md %}#setting-server-child-metrics-enabled) cluster setting is enabled, the metric will have a `sql` label.

<h3 id="v23-2-12-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- The [DB Console]({% link v23.2/ui-overview-dashboard.md %}) time-series graphs now have hover behavior that focuses on individual lines and shows values under the mouse pointer. [cockroachdb/cockroach#128864][#128864]
- Users with the [`VIEWACTIVITY` privilege]({% link v23.2/security-reference/authorization.md %}#viewactivity) can download [statement bundles]({% link v23.2/explain-analyze.md %}) from [DB Console]({% link v23.2/ui-overview.md %}).
- The [DB Console]({% link v23.2/ui-overview.md %}) now displays an alert message when the [license is expired]({% link v23.2/licensing-faqs.md %}#monitor-for-license-expiry) or if there are fewer than 15 days left before the license expires.
- The [DB Console]({% link v23.2/ui-overview.md %}) will now show a notification alerting customers without an Enterprise license to [upcoming license changes](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/enterprise-license-update/) with a link to more information.

<h3 id="v23-2-12-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug where declarative and legacy [schema changes]({% link v23.2/online-schema-changes.md %}) were incorrectly allowed to be executed concurrently, which could lead to failing or hung schema change jobs.
- Fixed a bug that caused errors like `ERROR: column 'crdb_internal_idx_expr' does not exist` when accessing a table with an [expression index]({% link v23.2/expression-indexes.md %}) where the expression evaluates to an [`ENUM`]({% link v23.2/enum.md %}) type, e.g., `CREATE INDEX ON t ((col::an_enum))`.
- [Function]({% link v23.2/user-defined-functions.md %}) input parameters can no longer have the `VOID` type.
- Internally issued queries that are not initiated within a [SQL session]({% link v23.2/show-sessions.md %}) no longer respect a statement timeout. This includes: [background jobs]({% link v23.2/show-jobs.md %}), queries issued by the [DB Console]({% link v23.2/ui-overview.md %}) that perform introspection, and the {{ site.data.products.cloud }} [SQL shell]({% link cockroachcloud/sql-shell.md %}).
- Fixed a bug where the `schema_locked` [storage parameter]({% link v23.2/with-storage-parameter.md %}) did not prevent a table from being referenced by a [foreign key]({% link v23.2/foreign-key.md %}).
- Users with the [`VIEWACTIVITY` SQL privilege]({% link v23.2/security-reference/authorization.md %}#viewactivity) can now request, view, and cancel [statement bundles]({% link v23.2/explain-analyze.md %}) in the [DB Console]({% link v23.2/ui-overview.md %}).
- Fixed a bug where a [lease transfer]({% link v23.2/architecture/replication-layer.md %}#epoch-based-leases-table-data) could lead to a panic with the message `side-transport update saw closed timestamp regression`. The bug could occur when a node was overloaded and failing to [heartbeat its node liveness record]({% link v23.2/cluster-setup-troubleshooting.md %}#node-liveness-issues).
- The [log message]({% link v23.2/logging-overview.md %}) `expiration of liveness record ... is not greater than expiration of the previous lease ... after liveness heartbeat` is no longer generated.
- Fixed a bug where the `require_explicit_primary_keys` [session variable]({% link v23.2/session-variables.md %}) would prevent all [`CREATE TABLE`]({% link v23.2/create-table.md %}) statements from working.
- Fixed a slow-building memory leak when using [Kerberos authentication]({% link v23.2/gssapi_authentication.md %}).
- Fixed a potential memory leak in [changefeeds using a cloud storage sink]({% link v23.2/changefeed-examples.md %}#create-a-changefeed-connected-to-a-cloud-storage-sink). The memory leak could occur if both [`changefeed.fast_gzip.enabled`]({% link v23.2/cluster-settings.md %}#setting-changefeed-fast-gzip-enabled) and `changefeed.cloudstorage.async_flush.enabled` were `true`, and the changefeed received an error while attempting to write to the cloud storage sink.
