_includes/v22.1/sql/select-for-update-overview.md, before:

The `SELECT FOR UPDATE` statement is used to order transactions by controlling concurrent access to one or more rows of a table.

It works by locking the rows returned by a [selection query][selection], such that other transactions trying to access those rows are forced to wait for the transaction that locked the rows to finish. These other transactions are effectively put into a queue based on when they tried to read the value of the locked rows.

Because this queueing happens during the read operation, the [thrashing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thrashing_(computer_science)) that would otherwise occur if multiple concurrently executing transactions attempt to `SELECT` the same data and then `UPDATE` the results of that selection is prevented. By preventing thrashing, CockroachDB also prevents [transaction retries][retries] that would otherwise occur.

As a result, using `SELECT FOR UPDATE` leads to increased throughput and decreased tail latency for contended operations.

CockroachDB does not support the `FOR SHARE` or `FOR KEY SHARE` [locking strengths](select-for-update.html#locking-strengths), or the `SKIP LOCKED` [wait policy](select-for-update.html#wait-policies).

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
By default, CockroachDB uses the `SELECT FOR UPDATE` locking mechanism during the initial row scan performed in [`UPDATE`](update.html) and [`UPSERT`](upsert.html) statement execution. To turn off implicit `SELECT FOR UPDATE` locking for `UPDATE` and `UPSERT` statements, set the `enable_implicit_select_for_update` [session variable](set-vars.html) to `false`.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

<!-- Reference Links -->

[retries]: transactions.html#transaction-retries
[selection]: selection-queries.html

Commit message:

Update SELECT FOR UPDATE re: serialization errors (#15913)
Followup work for DOC-6257

This commit ports the changes to the SELECT FOR UPDATE docs that were
added in cockroachdb/docs#15820 to the v21.2 and v22.1 docs as well,
since those versions are still supported.

_includes/v22.1/sql/select-for-update-overview.md, after:

The `SELECT FOR UPDATE` statement is used to order transactions by controlling concurrent access to one or more rows of a table.

It works by locking the rows returned by a [selection query][selection], such that other transactions trying to access those rows are forced to wait for the transaction that locked the rows to finish. These other transactions are effectively put into a queue based on when they tried to read the value of the locked rows.

Because this queueing happens during the read operation, the [thrashing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thrashing_(computer_science)) that would otherwise occur if multiple concurrently executing transactions attempt to `SELECT` the same data and then `UPDATE` the results of that selection is prevented. By preventing thrashing, CockroachDB also prevents [transaction retries][retries] that would otherwise occur.

As a result, using `SELECT FOR UPDATE` leads to increased throughput and decreased tail latency for contended operations.

Note that using `SELECT FOR UPDATE` does not completely eliminate the chance of [serialization errors](transaction-retry-error-reference.html), which use the `SQLSTATE` error code `40001`, and emit error messages with the string `restart transaction`. These errors can also arise due to [time uncertainty](architecture/transaction-layer.html#transaction-conflicts). To eliminate the need for application-level retry logic, in addition to `SELECT FOR UPDATE` your application also needs to use a [driver that implements automatic retry handling](transactions.html#client-side-intervention).

CockroachDB does not support the `FOR SHARE` or `FOR KEY SHARE` [locking strengths](select-for-update.html#locking-strengths), or the `SKIP LOCKED` [wait policy](select-for-update.html#wait-policies).

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
By default, CockroachDB uses the `SELECT FOR UPDATE` locking mechanism during the initial row scan performed in [`UPDATE`](update.html) and [`UPSERT`](upsert.html) statement execution. To turn off implicit `SELECT FOR UPDATE` locking for `UPDATE` and `UPSERT` statements, set the `enable_implicit_select_for_update` [session variable](set-vars.html) to `false`.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

<!-- Reference Links -->

[retries]: transactions.html#transaction-retries
[selection]: selection-queries.html
