Set the following for the `backup_config` attribute:

- `enabled` controls whether managed backups are enabled or disabled. If you modify the `retention_days` setting even when managed backups are disabled, this will use the [one possible change](#retention) for `retention_days`. Possible values for the `enabled` setting are: `true` or `false`.
- `frequency_minutes` determines [how often](#frequency) the managed backup will run in minutes. Possible values are: `5`, `10`, `15`, `30`, `60`, `240` (4 hours), `1440` (24 hours).
- `retention_days` sets the number of days Cockroach Labs will [retain](#retention) the managed backup in storage. You can change `retention_days` for the cluster **once** (whether in Terraform, the [Cloud API](#cloud-api), or the [Cloud Console](#cloud-console)). Possible values are: `2`, `7`, `30`, `90`, `365`. Note that:
    - If the initial value of the `retention_days` attribute is the default value `30`, you'll be able to modify the backup retention setting once more. 
    - If the initial value is not the default, you will not be able to modify `retention_days` again. You can refrain from including `retention_days` in the Terraform configuration and instead manage the retention in the Cloud Console.
    
    To modify the setting again, contact the [Cockroach Labs Support team]({% link {{site.current_cloud_version}}/support-resources.md %}). For more details on modifying `retention_days`, refer to the [Updating Backup Retention](https://github.com/cockroachdb/terraform-provider-cockroach/blob/main/docs/guides/updating-backup-retention.md) documentation in the Terraform provider for CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} Repository.