---
title: Technical Advisory 103220
advisory: A-103220
summary: Inserting rows into a multi-column-family table with COPY can corrupt the table, making future reads fail with internal errors.
toc: true
affected_versions: v23.1.0-alpha.1 to v23.1.0
advisory_date: 2023-05-16
docs_area: releases
---
Publication date: {{ page.advisory_date | date: "%B %e, %Y" }}

## Description

In CockroachDB v23.1.0 and its testing versions, inserting rows into a multi-[column-family](../v23.1/column-families.html) table with [`COPY`](../v23.1/copy-from.html) can corrupt the table. Future reads on the corrupted table can result in internal errors or silent data corruption. If the table is empty before the `COPY` executes, the table must be dropped and re-[copied](../v23.1/copy-from.html) to be encoded correctly. If data was copied into a table with existing rows, the data in those rows may be irrecoverable.

## Statement

This is resolved in CockroachDB by PR [103323](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/103323).

This fix has been applied to maintenance releases of CockroachDB [v23.1.1](../releases/v23.1.html#v23-1-1) and later.

This public issue is tracked by [#103220](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/issues/103220).

## Mitigation

Users running CockroachDB v23.1.0 can avoid this issue by setting the [session variable](../v23.1/set-vars.html) `vectorize` to `off`, or setting `copy_fast_path_enabled` to `off` in any session that executes the `COPY` command.

Users running CockroachDB v23.1.0 are encouraged to upgrade to v23.1.1 or a later version as soon as possible.

## Impact

In CockroachDB v23.1.0 and its testing versions, executing `COPY` into a target table that has multiple [column families](../v23.1/column-families.html) can corrupt the table. Future reads on the corrupted table can result in internal errors or silent data corruption. If data was copied into a table with existing rows, the data in those rows may be irrecoverable.

The v23.1.0 binary was withdrawn hours after its release, and prior to the formal announcement of this major release, so impacts to production workloads are not likely.

Please reach out to the [support team](https://support.cockroachlabs.com) if more information or assistance is needed.