---
title: Technical Advisory 106617
advisory: A-106617
summary: When the encryption-at-rest registry rolls over, the append-only log file contains a bug that could result in loss of the store. 
toc: true
affected_versions: v21.2.x, ≤ 22.1.21, ≤ 22.2.12, ≤ 23.1.7
advisory_date: 2023-08-15
docs_area: releases
---

Publication date: {{ page.advisory_date | date: "%B %e, %Y" }}

## Description

A CockroachDB store with [encryption-at-rest](../v23.1/security-reference/encryption.html#encryption-at-rest) enabled maintains per-file metadata necessary for file decryption within an append-only log. When this log file grows large, the log file is rotated by writing a snapshot of the metadata to a new, replacement log file. The introduction of this log file in [v21.2.0](../releases/v21.2.html) contains a bug in log rotation that could result in the omission of a single file’s metadata from the persisted log file. When a node encounters this bug, it continues to operate normally until the process is restarted. If the omitted file still exists after a process restart, the [`cockroach` process](../v23.1/cockroach-node.html) cannot decrypt or read the file, and the local store appears to be corrupted. This bug most frequently causes the `cockroach` process on a node to exit shortly after it starts. An error such as “`pebble/table: invalid table (bad magic number: 0x08cf6caea91de887)`” is logged. 

Only CockroachDB deployments using encryption-at-rest are affected. This issue is rare, given that the average lifespan of a file within CockroachDB’s [storage engine](../v23.1/architecture/storage-layer.html) is relatively short. If a file is omitted from the registry during a rotation, the file is frequently removed before the process is restarted.

The corruption is limited to a single store, allowing recovery through [decommissioning](../v23.1/node-shutdown.html?filters=decommission) and [replication](../v23.1/architecture/replication-layer.html). The restart of multiple processes simultaneously or in quick succession increases the risk of quorum loss through the simultaneous loss of nodes.

## Statement

This is resolved in CockroachDB by [#107249](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/107249), which fixes the ordering of steps during encryption-at-rest log rotation. 

The fix has been applied to maintenance releases of CockroachDB [v23.1.8](../releases/v23.1.html#v23-1-8), [v22.2.13](../releases/v22.2.html#v22-2-13), v22.1.22.

This public issue is tracked by [#106617](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/issues/106617).

## Mitigation

Users of CockroachDB v21.2, ≤22.1.21, ≤22.2.12, ≤23.1.7 using [encryption-at-rest](../v23.1/security-reference/encryption.html#encryption-at-rest) are encouraged to upgrade to v22.1.22, v22.2.13, v23.1.8 or a later version. Users are encouraged to deploy the patch release within a best practice “rolling upgrade.” Nodes should be upgraded one at a time, pausing 15 minutes between nodes.

If a node encounters corruption, manifested as repeated node start failures, users should:

1. Pause the rolling upgrade.
1. Decommission the node with corruption.
1. Wait for all ranges to fully replicate.
1. Resume the rolling upgrade.

## Impact

Restarting a node with a store encrypted using [encryption-at-rest](../v23.1/security-reference/encryption.html#encryption-at-rest) may surface existing latent, local corruption of the store’s data, requiring the node to be decommissioned and replaced. Customers are encouraged to upgrade to a patched version through a rolling upgrade.

Questions about any technical alert can be directed to our [support team](https://support.cockroachlabs.com/).
