---
title: Technical Advisory 56116
advisory: A-56116
summary: Incorrect timezone calculations with "slim" zoneinfo format
toc: true
affected_versions: All
advisory_date: 2020-10-29
docs_area: releases
---

Publication date: {{ page.advisory_date | date: "%B %e, %Y" }}

## Description

All currently-released versions of the Go runtime [incorrectly interpret](https://github.com/golang/go/issues/42138) the daylight-savings flag in "slim" versions of zoneinfo that are used by some OS distributions. This can result in incorrect local date-time calculations for any version of CockroachDB that is running on an OS image that distributes "slim" zoneinfo files.

- Users of official CockroachDB Docker images are not affected.
- Users of our reference Kubernetes configurations are not affected.
- Users of CockroachCloud are not affected.

## Statement

This public issue is tracked as [#56116][#56116].

## Mitigation

Execute the following SQL statement to determine if your cluster is affected:

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~
SET TIME ZONE UTC; -- The default for cockroach sql
SELECT '2020-10-29 15:30'::TIMESTAMPTZ AT TIME ZONE 'Europe/Berlin' AT TIME ZONE 'UTC';
~~~

If a value other than `2020-10-29 16:30:00+00:00` is returned, you are affected by this Go runtime bug and should perform the following remediation:

- Download [zoneinfo.zip 2020a](https://github.com/golang/go/tree/5c9a8c0761ae643828a4526db764ac7a50a1a24d/lib/time) from the golang development tree to each CockroachDB node.
- Perform a rolling restart of all CockroachDB processes, setting the `ZONEINFO` environment variable to the path of the `zoneinfo.zip` file.
- Confirm the fix by executing the above SQL statement.

## Impact

Any clusters impacted by this issue may produce incorrect results when performing date/time calculations that involve values in timezones and time periods for which daylight savings are in effect.

Questions about any technical alert can be directed to our [support team](https://support.cockroachlabs.com/).

[#56116]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/issues/56116
