---
title: Technical Advisory 99561
advisory: A-99561
summary: When adding a new column using the new declarative schema changer, CockroachDB retrieves a unique secondary index mistakenly, assuming it to be a primary index.
toc: true
affected_versions: v22.2.x, v23.1.0-v23.1.5
advisory_date: 2023-07-18
docs_area: releases
---

Publication date: {{ page.advisory_date | date: "%B %e, %Y" }}

## Description

CockroachDB automatically creates a primary [index](../v23.1/indexes.html) for each table, which indexes the table's [primary key](../v23.1/primary-key.html), or another unique value when there is no primary key. A secondary index is also created automatically for columns with a [`UNIQUE`](../v23.1/unique.html) constraint. CockroachDB v20.2 and v21.1 (the first two versions to support [`ALTER PRIMARY KEY`](../v21.1/alter-primary-key.html)) contained a bug where the index automatically created in some cases to provide uniqueness for the existing primary key would have its `EncodingType` field marked as `PrimaryIndexEncoding`. This behavior was fixed in v21.2, but left [secondary indexes](../v23.1/schema-design-indexes.html) with primary encoding.

In CockroachDB v22.2.0 and above, the implementation for [`ALTER TABLE`](../v22.2/alter-table.html#add-column) began using the new [declarative schema changer](../v23.1/online-schema-changes.html#declarative-schema-changer) framework. When adding a new column using the new declarative schema changer, a bug caused the incorrect retrieval of the unique secondary index rather than the primary index. As a result, the secondary index is modified to store the new columns rather than the primary index. That is, `scpb.FindPrimaryIndex` expects there to be only one `scpb.FindPrimaryIndex`, but in this case there are two, because the secondary index is incorrectly labeled as a primary one. This causes the new column data to only be present in the secondary index, which could lead to irrecoverable data loss, if the secondary index is deleted by the user. Furthermore, it could lead to inconsistent query results as the primary index does not contain data corresponding to the new column.

If you have gone through the following sequence of steps, you are potentially at risk of data inconsistency and loss:

1. Your cluster was on v20.2 or v21.1 at any point.
1. You executed `ALTER PRIMARY KEY` while on v20.2 or v21.1.
1. You upgraded to v22.2 and executed an `ALTER TABLE..ADD COLUMN` statement.

## Statement

This is resolved in CockroachDB by [#105828](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/105828), which makes CockroachDB automatically repair the encoding type for secondary indexes when accessing the table. In summary, this encoding type fix will prevent this issue from occurring, and additional validation will be added to precent data loss.

The fix will be applied to v22.2.12 and v23.1.6.

This public issue is tracked by [#99561](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/issues/99561).

## Mitigation

Users of CockroachDB who have had v20.2 or v21.1 deployed on their cluster should run the query outlined in [this gist](https://gist.github.com/fqazi/2b71b05ce8f6b028267ed3b4498c4f6a) to check if your cluster is in a potentially corrupt state. If the query returns any data, contact our [support team](https://support.cockroachlabs.com/) to resolve the inconsistency. Until our support team has had a chance to fix the cluster, refrain from running any schema changes on the impacted table including [`DROP INDEX`](../v23.1/drop-index.html) or [`ALTER TABLE`](../v23.1/alter-table.html) as it could lead to data loss.

If the query does not return any data, your cluster has not been impacted by this issue. No further action is necessary.

Additionally, users of CockroachDB [v22.2.0–v22.2.11](../releases/v22.2.html) are encouraged to upgrade to v22.2.12 once it has released. Similarly, users of [v23.1.0—v23.1.5](../releases/v23.1.html) are encouraged to update to v23.1.6 once released.

## Impact

Upon upgrade to CockroachDB v22.2.0 and above, a bug from v20.2 and v21.1 could cause the secondary index to be modified upon `ALTER TABLE..ADD COLUMN` instead of the existing primary index. If the user drops the secondary index, all data related to the new column will be deleted resulting in irrecoverable data loss. Furthermore, until this cluster is repaired, there is a risk of inconsistent query results as the primary index does not contain data for the newly added columns.

Questions about any technical alert can be directed to our [support team](https://support.cockroachlabs.com/).