## v23.1.0-alpha.7

Release Date: March 20, 2023

{% include releases/release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-7-security-updates">Security updates</h3>

- The default value for the `server.user_login.password_hashes.default_cost.scram_sha_256` [cluster setting](../v23.1/cluster-settings.html)is now 10610. (Previously the default was 119680.) The old value was found to have been too high for many types of client hardware, and in some cases could cause regressions in connection latency. The new value was chosen by running tests with clients that have 1 or 2 vCPUs provisioned. Additionally, the new cluster setting `server.user_login.rehash_scram_stored_passwords_on_cost_change.enabled` was added, and defaults to `true`. If it is `true` and the stored SCRAM password for a user has a different cost than the configured default cost, then the next time the user logs in, their password will automatically be rehashed using the configured default cost. If the rehashing is not desired, then operators should update the `server.user_login.password_hashes.default_cost.scram_sha_256` cluster setting to the value they desire before upgrading. This change is being backported to [v22.2](../releases/v22.2.html). [#98254][#98254]

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-7-general-changes">General changes</h3>

- CockroachDB now uses the soft memory limit of Go runtime by default. This feature of Go has been available since v22.2 by setting the `GOMEMLIMIT` environment variable. Now it is enabled by default, which should reduce the likelihood of the CockroachDB process [OOMing](../v23.1/cluster-setup-troubleshooting.html#out-of-memory-oom-crash). This soft memory limit can be disabled by specifying `--max-go-memory=0` to [`cockroach start`](../v23.1/cockroach-start.html). [#97666][#97666]
- Previously, the output of [`SHOW CHANGEFEED JOBS`](../v23.1/show-jobs.html#show-changefeed-jobs) was limited to show unfinished jobs and finished jobs from the last 14 days. This change makes the command show all changefeed jobs, regardless of if they finished and when they finished. Note that jobs still obey the [cluster setting](../v23.1/cluster-settings.html#setting-jobs-retention-time) `jobs.retention_time`. Completed jobs older than that time are deleted. Fixes: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/issues/97883  [#98175][#98175]

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-7-{{-site.data.products.enterprise-}}-edition-changes">{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} edition changes</h3>

- Sinkless [changefeeds](../v23.1/create-changefeed.html) that use the [`AS SELECT`](../v23.1/selection-queries.html) syntax now require an [enterprise license](../v23.1/enterprise-licensing.html). [#98241][#98241]
- [External connections](../v23.1/create-external-connection.html) can now be used as the URI value for a Confluent schema registry. For example, `CREATE EXTERNAL CONNECTION reg AS "https://example.cloud?opt=val"; CREATE CHANGEFEED FOR foo WITH format='avro',confluent_schema_registry='external://reg'` [#97140][#97140]
- [Backup schedules](../v23.1/create-schedule-for-backup.html) created or altered to have the option `on_previous_running` will have the full backup schedule created with the user specified option, but will override the incremental backup schedule to always default to `on_previous_running = wait`. This ensures correctness of the backup chains created by the incremental schedule by preventing duplicate incremental jobs from racing against each other. [#98249][#98249]
- [Changefeeds](../v23.1/changefeed-examples.html) to a Kafka sink now support the `OAUTHBEARER` `sasl_mechanism`. [#98053][#98053]
- [Changefeeds](../v23.1/changefeed-examples.html) running with the `changefeed.mux_rangefeed.enabled` [cluster setting](../v23.1/cluster-settings.html) set to `true` are more efficient, particularly when executing against large tables. [#96756][#96756]

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-7-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- A regions field was added to the `statistics` column of [`crdb_internal.statement_statistics`](../v23.1/crdb-internal.html#statement_statistics), reporting the [regions](../v23.1/show-regions.html) of the nodes on which the statement was executed. [#95449][#95449]
- The `enforce_home_region` [session setting](../v23.1/set-vars.html#enforce-home-region) was extended with a new optional preview feature and session setting, which is disabled by default, to dynamically detect and report the home region for [`SELECT`](../v23.1/selection-queries.html) queries based on the [locality](../v23.1/show-locality.html) of the queried rows, if different from the region of the [gateway node](../v23.1/ui-sessions-page.html#session-details-gateway-node). [cockroachdb/cockroach#97827][#97827]
- Added a URL to errors related to the `enforce_home_region` [session setting](../v23.1/set-vars.html#enforce-home-region) that users can view to see additional information about the error. [#97827][#97827]
- Added a new [session setting](../v23.1/set-vars.html) `enforce_home_region_follower_reads_enabled` as a preview feature to allow errors triggered by the `enforce_home_region` [session setting](../v23.1/set-vars.html#enforce-home-region) to perform reads using [`AS OF SYSTEM TIME follower_read_timestamp()`](../v23.1/follower-reads.html) in order to find and report a query's [home region](../v23.1/multiregion-overview.html#table-localities). [#97827][#97827]
- Added a new aggregate [builtin function](../v23.1/functions-and-operators.html#array-functions) `array_cat_agg`. It behaves similarly to `array_agg(unnest(array_column))`: it takes arrays as its input, unnests them into the array elements which are then aggregated into a single result array. It's similar to concatenating all input arrays into a single array. [#97826][#97826]
- Added a new [session setting](../v23.1/set-vars.html) `optimizer_always_use_histograms`, which ensures that the [optimizer](../v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.html) always uses histograms when available to calculate the [statistics](../v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.html#table-statistics) of every plan that it explores. Enabling this setting can prevent the optimizer from choosing a suboptimal [index](../v23.1/indexes.html) when statistics for a table are stale. [#98194][#98194]
- Added the `MODIFYSQLCLUSTERSETTING` [system privilege](../v23.1/security-reference/authorization.html#supported-privileges). This privilege allows users the ability to view all [cluster settings](../v23.1/cluster-settings.html), but only modify those settings with the `sql.defaults.*` prefix.  This re-introduces the modify functionality seen with `MODIFYCLUSTERSETTING` CockroachDB [v22.2](../releases/v22.2.html). [#97521][#97521]
- Added a `status` column to the following [`crdb_internal`](../v23.1/crdb-internal.html#) virtual tables: `crdb_internal.cluster_txn_execution_insights` and `crdb_internal.node_txn_execution_insights`. [cockroachdb/cockroach#98217][#98217]
- Added a new session variable `allow_role_memberships_to_change_during_transaction`  which can be used to make the [granting](../v23.1/grant.html) and [revoking](../v23.1/revoke.html) of [role memberships](../v23.1/security-reference/authorization.html#roles) faster at the cost of some [isolation](../v23.1/architecture/transaction-layer.html#isolation-levels) claims. By default, when granting or revoking a role from another role, CockroachDB waits for all [transactions](../v23.1/transactions.html) that are consulting the current set of role memberships to complete. This means that by the time the transaction which performed the grant or revoke operation returns successfully, the user has a proof that no ongoing transaction is relying on the state that existed prior to the change. The downside of this waiting is that it means that `GRANT` and `REVOKE` will take longer than the longest currently executing transaction. In some cases, users do not care about whether concurrent transactions will immediately see the side-effects of the operation, and would instead prefer that the grant or revoke finish rapidly. In order to aid in those cases, the session variable `allow_role_memberships_to_change_during_transaction` has been added. Now, the grant or revoke will only need to wait for the completion of statements in [sessions](../v23.1/show-sessions.html) which do not have this option set. One can set the option as enabled by default in all sessions in order to accelerate and grant and revoke role operations. [#98370][#98370]
- Fixed a bug where CockroachDB panicked when a user tried to [truncate a table](../v23.1/truncate.html) which had an ongoing [Row-level TTL](../v23.1/row-level-ttl.html) change. CockroachDB still does not support truncating a table in this scenario, but instead of panicking an "unimplemented" error is returned. [#98537][#98537]

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-7-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- [Range leases](../v23.1/architecture/overview.html#architecture-leaseholder) will no longer be transferred to [stores](../v23.1/cockroach-start.html#store) which are IO overloaded. [#97587][#97587]
- The environment variable `COCKROACH_IGNORE_CLUSTER_SETTINGS` can be used to [start a node](../v23.1/cockroach-start.html) so that it ignores all stored [cluster setting](../v23.1/cluster-settings.html) values in an emergency. [#97805][#97805]
- Introduce two [cluster settings](../v23.1/cluster-settings.html) to control disk utilization thresholds for [replica allocation](../v23.1/architecture/replication-layer.html): `kv.allocator.rebalance_to_max_disk_utilization_threshold`, which controls the maximum disk utilization before a store will never be used as a rebalance target, and `kv.allocator.max_disk_utilization_threshold`, which controls maximum disk utilization before a store will never be used as a rebalance or allocation target _and_ will actively have [replicas](../v23.1/architecture/overview.html#architecture-replica) moved off of it. [#97409][#97409]
- The [cluster setting](../v23.1/cluster-settings.html) `kv.trace.slow_request_stacks.threshold` can be used to attach available stack history from [tracer snapshots](../v23.1/show-trace.html) to traces of [slow requests](../v23.1/logging.html#sql_perf). [#97895][#97895]
- Added a new [metric](../v23.1/metrics.html) `changefeed.schema_registry.retry_count`. This measures the number of request retries performed when sending requests to the [changefeed schema registry](../v23.1/changefeed-examples.html). Observing a nonzero value may indicate improper configuration of the schema registry or changefeed parameters. [#98338][#98338]
- The `kv.range_split.load_cpu_threshold` [cluster setting](../v23.1/cluster-settings.html#setting-kv-range-split-load-cpu-threshold) now has a minimum setting value of `10ms`. [#98250][#98250]
- The `kv.allocator.lease_io_overload_threshold_enforcement` [cluster setting](../v23.1/cluster-settings.html) value which disables enforcement is updated to be spelled correctly as "ignore" rather than "ingore". [cockroachdb/cockroach#98543][#98543]
- The [range lease](../v23.1/architecture/overview.html#architecture-leaseholder) duration can now be adjusted via the environment variable `COCKROACH_RANGE_LEASE_DURATION`. Users are advised to exercise caution when adjusting this, and consider the relationship with e.g. [Raft](../v23.1/architecture/replication-layer.html#raft) election timeouts and network timeouts. [#98616][#98616]

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-7-command-line-changes">Command-line changes</h3>

- [`cockroach sql`](../v23.1/cockroach-sql.html) and [`cockroach demo`](../v23.1/cockroach-demo.html) now support the client-side command `\s` to display the previous command history. [#98035][#98035]
- Added a new flag `--max-go-memory` to the [`cockroach start`](../v23.1/cockroach-start.html) command. It controls the soft memory limit on the Go runtime which adjusts the behavior of the Go garbage collector to try keeping the memory usage under the soft memory limit (the limit is "soft" in a sense that it is not enforced if live objects (RSS) exceed it). Similar to the [`--max-sql-memory` flag](../v23.1/cockroach-start.html), the new flag `--max-go-memory` accepts numbers interpreted as bytes, size suffixes (e.g. `1GB` and `1GiB`) or a percentage of physical memory (e.g. `.25`). If left unspecified, the flag defaults to 2.25x of `--max-sql-memory` (subject to `--max-go-memory + 1.15 x --cache` not exceeding 90% of available RAM). Set to `0` to disable the soft memory limit (not recommended). If the `GOMEMLIMIT` env var is set and `--max-go-memory` is not, then the value from the env var is used; if both are set, then the flag takes precedence. [#97666][#97666]
  - Here are a few examples of how the default value is calculated on a machine with 16GiB of RAM. In the first two lines we use the default formula `2.25x --max-sql-memory`. In the third line, the default formula results in exceeding the upper bound on total usage (including the cache), so we use the upper bound determined as `0.9 * total RAM - 1.15 * cache size`. In the fourth line, the default formula results in 225MiB which is smaller than the lower bound of 256MiB, so we bump the value to that lower bound. In the fifth line, we use the value specified by the user (even though it is smaller than the lower bound on the default value).

    | Command line flags                                    | Computed max SQL memory | Computed cache size | Computed max Go memory |
    |-------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------+---------------------+------------------------|
    | --max-sql-memory=.25 --cache=.25                      | 4GiB                    | 4GiB                | 9GiB                   |
    | --max-sql-memory=.1 --cache=.5                        | 1.6GiB                  | 8GiB                | 3.6GiB                 |
    | --max-sql-memory=.25 --cache=.4                       | 4GiB                    | 6.4GiB              | 7.04GiB                |
    | --max-sql-memory=100MiB                               | 100MiB                  | 128MiB              | 256MiB                 |
    | --max-sql-memory=.4 --cache=.2 --max-go-memory=100MiB | 6.4GiB                  | 3.2GiB              | 100MiB                 |

- The `--drain-wait` argument to the [`cockroach node drain`](../v23.1/cockroach-node.html) command will be automatically increased if the command detects that it is smaller than the sum of the [cluster settings](../v23.1/node-shutdown.html#cluster-settings) `server.shutdown.drain_wait`, `server.shutdown.connection_wait`, `server.shutdown.query_wait` times two, and `server.shutdown.lease_transfer_wait`. If the `--drain-wait` argument is 0, then no timeout is used. This recommendation [was already documented](../v23.1/node-shutdown.html#drain-timeout), but now the advice will be applied automatically. [#98390][#98390]

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-7-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- Fixed the error `Cannot read properties of undefined (reading 'length')` which could cause [DB Console](../v23.1/ui-overview.html) pages to fail to load. [#98222][#98222]
- Added a new metric to the [Hardware dashboard](../v23.1/ui-hardware-dashboard.html) showing the system-wide CPU usage in addition to the existing CockroachDB CPU usage. [#98187][#98187]
- Users will see an upgrade error message when a response from the SQL-over-HTTP API (from `/api/v2/sql/`) says that a relation or column does not exist. [cockroachdb/cockroach#98312][#98312]
- The description of the average QPS graph in the [Replication Metrics Dashboard](../v23.1/ui-replication-dashboard.html) no longer claims the average is exponentially weighted. [#98270][#98270]
- The metric `rebalancing.cpunanospersecond` is now included in the [Replication Metrics Dashboard](../v23.1/ui-replication-dashboard.html). [#98270][#98270]
- Added an  error code column to the insights table for a failed execution to the statement and transaction detail views on the [Insights Page](../v23.1/ui-insights-page.html). Added a status column to the statement and transaction workload insights tables on the [Insights Page](../v23.1/ui-insights-page.html). [cockroachdb/cockroach#97138][#97138]

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-7-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- RPC connections between nodes now require RPC connections to be established in both directions, otherwise the connection will be closed. This is done to prevent asymmetric network partitions where nodes are able to send outbound messages but not receive inbound messages, which could result in persistent unavailability. This behavior can be disabled by the [cluster setting](../v23.1/cluster-settings.html) `rpc.dialback.enabled`. [#94778][#94778]
- The owner of the public schema can now be changed using [`ALTER SCHEMA public OWNER TO new_owner`](../v23.1/alter-schema.html). [#98000][#98000]
- Fixed a bug in which [common table expressions](../v23.1/common-table-expressions.html) (CTEs) marked as `WITH RECURSIVE` which were not actually recursive could return incorrect results. This could happen if the CTE used a `UNION ALL`, because the [optimizer](../v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.html) incorrectly converted the `UNION ALL` to a `UNION`. This bug had existed since support for recursive CTEs was first added in [v20.1](../releases/v20.1.html). [#98042][#98042]
- Internal queries that are executed in order to serve a client-initiated query already appeared in [statistics](../v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.html#table-statistics) with an `application_name` prefixed by the string `$$`. But this name was not used in the output of [`SHOW QUERIES`](../v23.1/show-statements.html). Now, `SHOW QUERIES` also shows the `$$` prefix for these types of queries.
- Fixed a bug in evaluation of `ANY`, `SOME`, and `ALL` [sub-operators](../v23.1/functions-and-operators.html#operators) that would cause expressions like `NULL = ANY(ARRAY[]::INT[])` to return `NULL` instead of `False`. [cockroachdb/cockroach#97948][#97948]
- Fixed a bug that could crash the process when a query contained a literal [tuple expression](../v23.1/scalar-expressions.html#tuple-constructors) with more than two elements and only a single label, e.g., `((1, 2, 3) AS foo)`. [#98142][#98142]
- Fixed a bug where certain special character combinations in the [`options` field in connection URLs](../v23.1/connection-parameters.html#supported-options-parameters) were not properly supported by CockroachDB. [#98302][#98302]
- Fixed a bug where the stats columns on the [Transaction Fingerprints overview page](../v23.1/ui-transactions-page.html#transaction-fingerprints-view) was continuously incrementing. The fix was to ensure we don't re-use the stats object between re-renders by creating a new copy of the stats for every aggregation. [cockroachdb/cockroach#98307][#98307]
- Fixed a bug where [transactions](../v23.1/transactions.html) that performed a [`SELECT FOR UPDATE`](../v23.1/select-for-update.html) across multiple [ranges](../v23.1/architecture/overview.html#architecture-range) but never performed writes could fail to eagerly clean up their [locks](../v23.1/architecture/transaction-layer.html#writing) after commit. Future transactions that encountered these abandoned locks could be delayed for 50ms before unlocking them. [#98044][#98044]
- Fixed a bug which could result in some [`CREATE INDEX`](../v23.1/create-index.html) statements to fail with the error `failed to verify keys for Scan`. [#98262][#98262]
- Fixed a bug where CockroachDB could encounter an internal error `concurrent txn use detected`. The bug was introduced in [v22.2.0](../releases/v22.2.html). [#98120][#98120]
- Fixed a bug where if an [`UPDATE`](../v23.1/update.html) was performed during an on-going [`ADD COLUMN`](../v23.1/alter-table.html#add-column) or [`DROP COLUMN`](../v23.1/alter-table.html#drop-column) on a table, the update could incorrectly fail due to a duplicate key error. [#98354][#98354]
- Fixed a bug where it was possible for CockroachDB to temporarily not respect [zone configurations](../v23.1/configure-replication-zones.html) other than [the default zone config](../v23.1/configure-replication-zones.html#view-the-default-replication-zone). This could only happen for a short window of a few seconds after nodes with existing [replicas](../v23.1/architecture/overview.html#architecture-replica) were [restarted](../v23.1/cockroach-start.html), and self-rectified (also within seconds).  [#98422][#98422]
  - This manifested in a few ways: 
    - If [`num_replicas`](../v23.1/configure-replication-zones.html#num_replicas) was set to something other than 3, we would still add or remove replicas to get to 3x replication.
    - If [`num_voters`](../v23.1/configure-replication-zones.html#num_voters) was set explicitly to get a mix of voting and [non-voting replicas](../v23.1/architecture/replication-layer.html#non-voting-replicas), it would be ignored. CockroachDB could possibly even remove non-voting replicas. 
    - If [`range_min_bytes`](../v23.1/configure-replication-zones.html#range-min-bytes) or [`range_max_bytes`](../v23.1/configure-replication-zones.html#range-max-bytes) were changed from their default values of 128 MiB and 512 MiB respectively, we would instead try to size ranges to be within [128 MiB, 512MiB]. This could appear as an excess amount of [range splits](../v23.1/architecture/distribution-layer.html#range-splits) or [merges](../v23.1/architecture/distribution-layer.html#range-merges), as visible in the [Replication Dashboard](../v23.1/ui-replication-dashboard.html) under "Range Operations". 
    - If [`gc.ttlseconds`](../v23.1/configure-replication-zones.html#gc-ttlseconds) was set to something other than the default 90000 seconds (25h), we would still only GC data older than 90000s. If the GC TTL was set to something larger than 25h, [`AS OF SYSTEM TIME`](../v23.1/as-of-system-time.html) queries going further back could start failing. For GC TTLs less than the default, clusters would observe increased disk usage due to more retained [MVCC garbage](../v23.1/performance-recipes.html#too-many-mvcc-values). 
    - If [`constraints`](../v23.1/configure-replication-zones.html#constraints), [`lease_preferences`](../v23.1/configure-replication-zones.html#lease_preferences) or [`voter_constraints`](../v23.1/configure-replication-zones.html#voter_constraints) were set, they would be ignored. Range data and [leases](../v23.1/architecture/glossary.html#architecture-leaseholder) would possibly be moved outside where prescribed.
- Allow users with the `VIEWACTIVITY`/`VIEWACTIVITYREDACTED` [permissions](../v23.1/security-reference/authorization.html#role-options) to access the [`crdb_internal.ranges_no_leases`](../v23.1/crdb-internal.html) table, necessary to view important DB Console pages (specifically, the [Databases Page](../v23.1/ui-databases-page.html), including database details, and database tables). [#98535][#98535]
- Fixed a bug that caused incorrect results when comparisons of [tuples](../v23.1/scalar-expressions.html#tuple-constructors) were done using the `ANY` [operator](../v23.1/functions-and-operators.html#operators). For example, an expression like `(x, y) = ANY ([SELECT](../v23.1/selection-queries.html) a, b FROM t WHERE ...)` could return `true` instead of the correct result of `NULL` when `x` and `y` were `NULL`, or `a` and `b` were `NULL`. This could only occur if the [subquery was correlated](../v23.1/subqueries.html#correlated-subqueries), i.e., it references columns from the outer part of the query. This bug was present since the [cost-based optimizer](../v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.html) was introduced in [v2.1](../releases/v2.1.html). [#98700][#98700]

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-7-miscellaneous">Miscellaneous</h3>

- Added two views to the [`crdb_internal`](../v23.1/crdb-internal.html) catalog: `crdb_internal.statement_statistics_persisted`, which surfaces data in the persisted `system.statement_statistics` table, and `crdb_internal.transaction_statistics_persisted`, which surfaces the `system.transaction_statistics` table. [cockroachdb/cockroach#98261][#98261]

<div class="release-note-contributors" markdown="1">

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-7-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 245 merged PRs by 65 authors.

</div>

[#94778]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/94778
[#95449]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/95449
[#96449]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/96449
[#96756]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/96756
[#97138]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/97138
[#97140]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/97140
[#97409]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/97409
[#97521]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/97521
[#97569]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/97569
[#97587]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/97587
[#97666]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/97666
[#97805]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/97805
[#97826]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/97826
[#97827]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/97827
[#97895]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/97895
[#97948]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/97948
[#97991]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/97991
[#97995]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/97995
[#98000]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98000
[#98035]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98035
[#98042]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98042
[#98044]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98044
[#98053]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98053
[#98060]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98060
[#98092]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98092
[#98120]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98120
[#98135]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98135
[#98142]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98142
[#98175]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98175
[#98186]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98186
[#98187]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98187
[#98194]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98194
[#98217]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98217
[#98222]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98222
[#98241]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98241
[#98249]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98249
[#98250]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98250
[#98254]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98254
[#98261]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98261
[#98262]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98262
[#98270]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98270
[#98302]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98302
[#98307]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98307
[#98312]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98312
[#98338]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98338
[#98354]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98354
[#98370]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98370
[#98390]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98390
[#98403]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98403
[#98422]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98422
[#98445]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98445
[#98535]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98535
[#98537]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98537
[#98543]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98543
[#98616]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98616
[#98700]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98700
