<h2 id="{{ include.release | slugify }}">{{ include.release }}</h2>

Release Date: {{ include.release_date | date: "%B %-d, %Y" }}

This page lists additions and changes in v20.1.1 since v20.1.0.

- For a comprehensive summary of features in v20.1, see the [v20.1 GA release notes](v20.1.html#v20-1-0).
- To upgrade to v20.1, see [Upgrade to CockroachDB v20.1](../v20.1/upgrade-cockroach-version.html)

{{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}
{% include /v20.1/alerts/warning-a58932.md %}
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

{{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}
{% include /v20.1/alerts/warning-a63162.md %}
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

<h3 id="v20-1-1-downloads">Downloads</h3>

<div id="os-tabs" class="clearfix os-tabs_button-outline-primary">
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v20.1.1.darwin-10.9-amd64.tgz"><button id="mac" data-eventcategory="mac-binary-release-notes">Mac</button></a>
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v20.1.1.linux-amd64.tgz"><button id="linux" data-eventcategory="linux-binary-release-notes">Linux</button></a>
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v20.1.1.windows-6.2-amd64.zip"><button id="windows" data-eventcategory="windows-binary-release-notes">Windows</button></a>
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v20.1.1.src.tgz"><button id="source" data-eventcategory="source-release-notes">Source</button></a>
</div>

<h3 id="v20-1-1-docker-image">Docker image</h3>

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~shell
$ docker pull cockroachdb/cockroach:v20.1.1
~~~

<h3 id="v20-1-1-backward-incompatible-changes">Backward-incompatible changes</h3>

- The copy of `system` and `crdb_internal` tables extracted by [`cockroach debug zip`](../v20.1/cockroach-debug-zip.html) is now written using the `TSV` format (inside the .zip file), instead of an ASCII-art table. [#48094][#48094] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Updated the textual error and warning messages displayed by [`cockroach quit`](../v20.1/cockroach-quit.html). [#47692][#47692]
- [`cockroach quit`](../v20.1/cockroach-quit.html) now prints progress details on its standard error stream, even when `--logtostderr` is not specified. Scripts that wish to ignore this output can redirect the standard error stream. [#47692][#47692] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- CockroachDB v20.1 introduced an experimental new rule for the `--join` flag causing it to prefer SRV records, if present in DNS, to look up the peer nodes to join. However, it is also found to cause disruption in in certain deployments. To reduce this disruption and UX surprise, the feature is now gated behind a new command-line flag `--experimental-dns-srv` which must now be explicitly passed to [`cockroach start`](../v20.1/cockroach-start.html) to enable it. [#49129][#49129] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Added a new cluster setting, `server.shutdown.lease_transfer_wait`, that allows you to configure the server shutdown timeout period for transferring range leases to other nodes. Previously, the timeout period was not configurable and was set to 5 seconds, and the phase of server shutdown responsible for range lease transfers would give up after 10000 attempts of transferring replica leases away. The limit of 10000 attempts has been removed, so that now only the maximum duration `server.shutdown.lease_transfer_wait` applies. [#47692][#47692] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}

<h3 id="v20-1-1-general-changes">General changes</h3>

- The [statement diagnostics](../v20.1/admin-ui-statements-page.html#diagnostics) bundle now contains a new file, `trace-jaeger.json`, that can be manually imported in Jaeger for visualization. [#47432][#47432] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}

<h3 id="v20-1-1-enterprise-edition-changes">Enterprise edition changes</h3>

- Fixed a bug where the job ID of a lagging [changefeed](../v20.1/change-data-capture.html) would be omitted, and instead it would be reported as sinkless. [#48562][#48562]

<h3 id="v20-1-1-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- The `pg_collation`, `pg_proc`, `pg_database`, and `pg_type` tables in the `pg_catalog` database no longer require privileges on any database in order for the data to be visible. [#48080][#48080], [#48765][#48765]
- Histogram collection with [`CREATE STATISTICS`](../v20.1/create-statistics.html) is no longer supported on columns with type `array`. Only row count, distinct count, and null count are collected for array-type columns. [#48343][#48343] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- [`ROLLBACK TO SAVEPOINT`](../v20.1/rollback-transaction.html) is no longer permitted after miscellaneous internal errors. [#48305][#48305] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Fixed an issue with optimizing subqueries involving [set operations](../v20.1/selection-queries.html) that can prevent queries from executing. [#48680][#48680]
- CockroachDB now correctly reports the type length for the `char` type. [#48642][#48642]
- The `RowDescription` message of the wire-level protocol now contains the table ID and column ID for each column in the result set. These values correspond to `pg_attribute.attrelid` and `pg_attribute.attnum`. If a result column does not refer to a simple table or view, these values will be zero, as they were before. The message also contains the type modifier for each column in the result set. This corresponds to `pg_attribute.atttypmod`. If it is not available, the value is `-1`, as it was before. [#48748][#48748], [#49087][#49087]

<h3 id="v20-1-1-command-line-changes">Command-line changes</h3>

- [`cockroach debug zip`](../v20.1/cockroach-debug-zip.html) now tries multiple times to retrieve data using SQL if it encounters retry errors and skips over fully decommissioned nodes. It also supports two command-line parameters `--nodes` and `--exclude-nodes`. When specified, they control which nodes are inspected when gathering the data. This makes it possible to focus on a group of nodes of interest in a large cluster, or to exclude nodes that `cockroach debug zip` would have trouble reaching otherwise. Both flags accept a list of individual node IDs or ranges of node IDs, e.g., `--nodes=1,10,13-15`. [#48094][#48094] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Client commands such as [`cockroach init`](../v20.1/cockroach-init.html) and [`cockroach quit`](../v20.1/cockroach-quit.html) now support the `--cluster-name` and `--disable-cluster-name-verification` flags in order to support running them on clusters that have been configured to use a cluster name. Previously it was impossible to run such commands against nodes configured with the `--cluster-name` flag. [#48016][#48016] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- It is now possible to drain a node without shutting down the process, using the `cockroach node drain` command. This makes it easier to integrate with service managers and orchestration: it now becomes safe to issue `cockroach node drain` and then separately stop the service via a process manager or orchestrator. Without this new mode, there is a risk to misconfigure the service manager to auto-restart the node after it shuts down via `quit`, in a way that's surprising or unwanted. The new command `node drain` also recognizes the new `--drain-wait` flag. [#47692][#47692] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- The time that [`cockroach quit`](../v20.1/cockroach-quit.html) waits client-side for the node to drain (remove existing clients and push range leases away) is now configurable via the command-line flag `--drain-wait`. Note that separate server-side timeouts also apply separately. Check the `server.shutdown.*` cluster settings for details. [#47692][#47692] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- The commands [`cockroach quit`](../v20.1/cockroach-quit.html) and `cockroach node drain` now report a "work remaining" metric on their standard error stream. The value reduces until it reaches `0` to indicate that the graceful shutdown has completed server-side. An operator can now rely on `cockroach node drain` to obtain confidence of a graceful shutdown prior to terminating the server process. [#47692][#47692] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- The default value of the parameter `--drain-wait` for [`cockroach quit`](../v20.1/cockroach-quit.html) has been increased from 1 minute to 10 minutes, to give more time for nodes with thousands of ranges to migrate their leases away. [#47692][#47692] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Added support for `list cert` with certificates which require `--cert-principal-map` to pass validation. [#48177][#48177] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Added support for the `--cert-principal-map` flag in the [`cockroach cert`](../v20.1/cockroach-cert.html), [`cockroach sql`](../v20.1/cockroach-sql.html), [`cockroach init`](../v20.1/cockroach-init.html), and [`cockroach quit`](../v20.1/cockroach-quit.html) commands. [#48177][#48177] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Made `--storage-engine` sticky (i.e., resolve to the last used engine type when unspecified) even when specified stores are encrypted at rest. [#49073][#49073] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}

<h3 id="v20-1-1-admin-ui-changes">Admin UI changes</h3>

- Fixed a bug where `Raft log too large` was reported incorrectly for replicas for which the raft log size is not to be trusted. [#48286][#48286]
- Fixed a bug where a multi-node cluster without localities defined wouldn't be able to render the [**Network Latency**](../v20.1/admin-ui-network-latency-page.html) page. [#49191][#49191]
- Fixed a bug where link to specific problem ranges had an incorrect path. Problem ranges are now linked correctly again. [#49188][#49188]

<h3 id="v20-1-1-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug where vectorized queries on composite datatypes could sometimes return invalid data. [#48463][#48463]
- Fixed a bug that could lead to data corruption or data loss if a replica was both the source of a snapshot and was being concurrently removed from the range and certain specific conditions exist inside RocksDB. This scenario is rare, but possible. [#48321][#48321]
- Fixed a bug where the migration for ongoing schema change jobs would cause the node to panic with an "index out of bounds" error upon encountering a malformed table descriptor with no schema change mutation corresponding to the job to be migrated. [#48838][#48838]
- Fixed an error where instead of returning a parsing error in queries with `count(*)` CockroachDB could incorrectly return no output (when the query was executed via row-by-row engine). [#47485][#47485]
- Fixed a bug where CockroachDB was incorrectly releasing memory used by hash aggregation.  [#47518][#47518]
- [`cockroach debug zip`](../v20.1/cockroach-debug-zip.html) can now successfully avoid out-of-memory errors when extracting very large `system` or `crdb_internal` tables. It will also report an error encountered while writing the end of the output ZIP file. [#48094][#48094]
- Removed redundant metadata information for subqueries and postqueries in [`EXPLAIN (VERBOSE)`](../v20.1/explain.html) output. [#47975][#47975]
- [`TRUNCATE`](../v20.1/truncate.html) can now run on temporary tables, fixing a bug in v20.1 where temporary tables could not be truncated, resulting in an error `unexpected value: nil`. [#48078][#48078]
- Fixed a bug in which `(tuple).*` was only expanded to the first column in the tuple and the remaining elements were dropped. [#48290][#48290]
- Fixed case where [`PARTITION BY`](../v20.1/partition-by.html) and [`ORDER BY`](../v20.1/query-order.html) columns in window specifications were losing qualifications when used inside views. [#47715][#47715]
- CockroachDB will no longer display a severe `internal error` upon certain privilege check failures via `pg_catalog` built-in functions. [#48242][#48242]
- Fixed a bug where a read operation in a transaction with a past savepoint rollback would give an internal error for exceeding the maximum count of results requested [#48165][#48165]
- The distinction between delete jobs for columns and dependent jobs for deleting indices, views and sequences is now better defined. [#48259][#48259]
- Fixed incorrect results that could occur when casting negative intervals or timestamps to type `decimal`. [#48345][#48345]
- Fixed an error that occurred when statistics collection was explicitly requested on a column with type `array`. [#48343][#48343]
- Fixed a nil pointer dereference in Pebble's block cache due to a rare "double free" of a block. [#48346][#48346]
- Fixed Pebble to properly mark `sstables` for compaction which contain range tombstones. This matches the behavior when using RocksDB and ensures that space used for temporary storage is reclaimed quickly. [#48346][#48346]
- Fixed a bug introduced in v20.1 that could cause multiple index GC jobs to be created for the same schema change in rare cases. [#47818][#47818]
- Fixed a bug where CockroachDB could return an internal error when performing a query with `CASE`, `AND`, `OR` operators in some cases when it was executed via the vectorized engine. [#48072][#48072]
- Fixed a rare bug where stats were not automatically generated for a new table. [#48027][#48027]
- Fixed a panic that could occur when [`SHOW RANGES`](../v20.1/show-ranges.html) or [`SHOW RANGE FOR ROW`](../v20.1/show-range-for-row.html) was called with a virtual table. [#48347][#48347]
- Made SRV resolution non-fatal for join list records to align with the standard and improve reliability of node startup. [#48349][#48349]
- Fixed a rare bug causing a range to deadlock and all the writes to the respective range to timeout. [#48303][#48303]
- Fixed a long-standing bug where HTTP requests would start to fail with error 503 "`transport: authentication handshake failed: io: read/write on closed pipe`" and never become possible again until the node is restarted. [#48456][#48456]
- When processing `--join`, invalid SRV records with port number `0` are now properly ignored. [#48527][#48527]
- Fixed a bug where `SHOW STATISTICS USING JSON` contained incorrect single quotes for strings with spaces inside histograms. [#48544][#48544]
- Fixed a bug where the two settings `kv.range_split.by_load_enabled` and `kv.range_split.load_qps_threshold` were incorrectly marked as non-public in the output of `SHOW CLUSTER SETTINGS`. [#48585][#48585]
- You can no longer [drop databases](../v20.1/drop-database.html) that contain tables which are currently offline due to [`IMPORT`](../v20.1/import.html) or [`RESTORE`](../v20.1/restore.html). Previously dropping a database in this state could lead to a corrupted schema which prevented running backups. [#48606][#48606]
- Fixed a bug preventing timestamps from being closed which could result in failed follower reads or failure to observe resolved timestamps in [changefeeds](../v20.1/change-data-capture.html). [#48682][#48682]
- Fixed `debug encryption-status` and the Admin UI display of encryption status when using Pebble. [#47995][#47995]
- CockroachDB now deletes the partially imported data after an [`IMPORT`](../v20.1/import.html) fails or is canceled. [#48605][#48605]
- Fixed a bug where the [`SHOW CREATE`](../v20.1/show-create.html) statement would sometimes show a partitioning step for an index that has been dropped. [#48768][#48768]
- Re-allowed `diagnostics.forced_sql_stat_reset.interval`, `diagnostics.sql_stat_reset.interval` and `external.graphite.interval` to set to their maximum values (24hr, 24hr and 15min respectively). [#48760][#48760]
- Fixed a bug where CockroachDB could encounter an internal error when a query with `LEFT SEMI` or `LEFT ANTI` join was performed via the vectorized execution engine. This is likely to occur only with `vectorize=on` setting. [#48751][#48751]
- Fixed a bug where running [`cockroach dump`](../v20.1/cockroach-dump.html) on tables with interleaved primary keys would erroneously include an extra `CREATE UNIQUE INDEX "primary" ... INTERLEAVE IN PARENT` statement in the dump output. This made it impossible to reimport dumped data without manual editing. [#48776][#48776]
- Fixed a bug where running [`cockroach dump`](../v20.1/cockroach-dump.html) on a table with collated strings would omit the collation clause for the data insertion statements. [#48832][#48832]
- CockroachDB now properly [restores tables](../v20.1/restore.html) that were backed up while they were in the middle of a schema change. [#48850][#48850]
- Manually writing a `NULL` value into the `system.users` table for the `hashedPassword` column will no longer cause a server crash during user authentication. [#48836][#48836]
- Fixed a bug where in rare circumstances, CockroachDB may fail to open a store configured to use the Pebble storage engine. [#49080][#49080]
- Fixed a bug where the storage engine, when configured to use the Pebble storage engine, would return duplicate keys, causing incorrect or inconsistent results. [#49080][#49080]
- Fixed a bug where columns of a table could not be dropped after a primary key change. [#49088][#49088]
- Fixed a bug which falsely indicated that `kv.closed_timestamp.max_behind_nanos` was almost always growing. [#48716][#48716]
- Fixed a bug where changing the primary key of a table that had [partitioned indexes](../v20.1/multi-region-database.html) could cause indexes to lose their zone configurations. In particular, the indexes rebuilt as part of a primary key change would keep their partitions but lose the zone configurations attached to those partitions. [#48827][#48827]
- Fixed costing of lookup join with a limit on top, resulting in better plans in some cases. [#49137][#49137]
- Fixed a bug where on [dropping a database](../v20.1/drop-database.html), it would not drop the entry for its public schema in the `system.namespace` table. [#49139][#49139]
- [`SHOW BACKUP SCHEMAS`](../v20.1/show-backup.html#show-a-backup-with-schemas) no longer shows table comments as they may be inaccurate. [#49130][#49130]
- Fixed a memory leak which can affect [changefeeds](../v20.1/change-data-capture.html) performing scans of large tables. [#49161][#49161]
- Prevented namespace orphans (manifesting as `database "" not found` errors) when migrating from v19.2. [#49200][#49200]
- Fixed a bug that caused query failures when using arrays in [window functions](../v20.1/window-functions.html). [#49238][#49238]

<h3 id="v20-1-1-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- Disabled the Go runtime block profile by default which results in a small but measurable reduction in CPU usage. The block profile has diminished in utility with the advent of mutex contention profiles and is almost never used during performance investigations. [#48153][#48153]
- The cleanup job which runs after a primary key change to remove old indexes, which blocks other schema changes from running, now starts immediately after the primary key swap is complete. This reduces the amount of waiting time before subsequent schema changes can run. [#47818][#47818]
- Histograms used by the optimizer for query planning now have more accurate row counts per histogram bucket, particularly for columns that have many null values. The histograms also have improved cardinality estimates. This results in better plans in some cases. [#48626][#48626], [#48646][#48646]
- Fixed a bug that caused a simple schema change to take more than 30s. [#48621][#48621]
- Queries run via the [vectorized execution engine](../v20.1/vectorized-execution.html) are now processed faster, with most noticeable gains on the queries that output many rows. [#48732][#48732]
- Reduced time needed to run a [backup command](../v20.1/backup.html) when it is built on a lot of previous incremental backups. [#48772][#48772]

<h3 id="v20-1-1-doc-updates">Doc updates</h3>

- Added a tutorial on [using Flyway with CockroachDB](../v20.1/flyway.html). [#7329][#7329]

<div class="release-note-contributors">

<h3 id="v20-1-1-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 94 merged PRs by 27 authors.
We would like to thank the following contributors from the CockroachDB community:

- Drew Kimball (first-time contributor)

</div>

[#47432]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/47432
[#47485]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/47485
[#47518]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/47518
[#47664]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/47664
[#47692]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/47692
[#47715]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/47715
[#47818]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/47818
[#47975]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/47975
[#47995]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/47995
[#48016]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48016
[#48027]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48027
[#48072]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48072
[#48078]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48078
[#48080]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48080
[#48094]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48094
[#48153]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48153
[#48165]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48165
[#48177]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48177
[#48242]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48242
[#48259]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48259
[#48286]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48286
[#48290]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48290
[#48303]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48303
[#48305]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48305
[#48321]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48321
[#48343]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48343
[#48345]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48345
[#48346]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48346
[#48347]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48347
[#48349]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48349
[#48365]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48365
[#48410]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48410
[#48456]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48456
[#48463]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48463
[#48527]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48527
[#48544]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48544
[#48562]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48562
[#48585]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48585
[#48605]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48605
[#48606]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48606
[#48621]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48621
[#48626]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48626
[#48642]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48642
[#48646]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48646
[#48680]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48680
[#48682]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48682
[#48716]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48716
[#48732]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48732
[#48748]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48748
[#48751]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48751
[#48760]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48760
[#48765]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48765
[#48768]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48768
[#48772]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48772
[#48776]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48776
[#48827]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48827
[#48832]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48832
[#48836]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48836
[#48838]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48838
[#48850]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48850
[#49073]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49073
[#49080]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49080
[#49087]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49087
[#49088]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49088
[#49129]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49129
[#49130]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49130
[#49137]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49137
[#49139]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49139
[#49161]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49161
[#49188]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49188
[#49191]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49191
[#49200]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49200
[#49238]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49238
[#7329]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/docs/pull/7329
