This section shows how to perform a major-version upgrade for a cluster in CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }}. Patch upgrades within a cluster's major version are applied automatically, and no action is required.

1. Verify the cluster's current major version, and which versions it can be upgraded to:
    1. Sign into [CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }}](https://cockroachlabs.cloud).
    1. From the **Clusters** page, find the cluster by name. If the cluster is in a folder, click the name of the folder to find the cluster. The cluster's major version and patch are shown in the **Version** column.
1. Check which upgrades are available to the cluster, if any.

    Major versions alternate between Regular releases, which are required, and Innovation releases, which can be skipped in {{ site.data.products.advanced }} clusters and are unavailabile in {{ site.data.products.standard }} or {{ site.data.products.basic }}.

    From a Regular release, you can upgrade to the next major release (an Innovation release) or the subsequent major release (another Regular release). From an Innovation release, you must upgrade to the next Regular release.

    These releases also provide different support periods. For details on their support periods and which releases are Regular or Innovation releases, refer the [CockroachDB Cloud Support Policy]({% link cockroachcloud/upgrade-policy.md %}#cockroachdb-cloud-support-policy).

    To check whether major-version upgrades are available, click the three-dot **Actions** menu. If upgrades are available, **Upgrade major version** will be enabled. Click it. In the dialog, if only one newer major version upgrade is available, it is selected automatically. If multiple upgrades are available, the latest Regular release is selected by default. If you intend to upgrade the cluster, keep this dialog open while completing the next steps. Otherwise, close the dialog.

    In CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.standard }}, if the cluster is set to upgrade major versions automatically, the Actions menu will not show the **Upgrade major version** option. To change this setting, refer to [Manage cluster upgrades]({% link cockroachcloud/cluster-management.md %}#manage-cluster-upgrades). 
1. Before beginning a major-version upgrade, review its [Release notes]({% link releases/index.md %}), as well as the release notes for any skipped Innovation Releases. If any backward-incompatible changes or new features impact the cluster's workloads, you may need to make adjustments before beginning the upgrade.
1. A CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.standard }} or {{ site.data.products.basic }} cluster always remains available while it is upgraded. For a multi-node CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.advanced }} cluster, nodes are upgraded one at a time in a rolling fashion. The cluster remains available, even while one node at a time is temporarily unavailable during its upgrade. (Refer to [Multi-Active Availability]({% link {{site.current_cloud_version}}/multi-active-availability.md %}).) A single-node {{ site.data.products.advanced }} cluster will be unavailable while the cluster is upgraded and restarted. If necessary, prepare for the upgrade by communicating ahead of time with your users, and plan to begin the upgrade during a time when the impact on the cluster's workload will be minimized.
1. To begin a major-version upgrade, go back to the dialog in the CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} Console. If multiple upgrades are available, select the desired version. Review the details, then click **Start upgrade**. After several seconds, the dialog closes, and the **Version** column in the **Cluster List** page changes to **Upgrading**, indicating the version to which you are upgrading the cluster.
1. To finalize the upgrade:
  - For CockroachDB Basic clusters and CockroachDB Standard clusters that are set to upgrade automatically, no further action is needed. Major version upgrades are automatically finalized when the upgrade is complete, and cannot be rolled back. When the upgrade is complete, the new version is displayed under the **Version** column.
  - For CockroachDB Advanced cluster and CockroachDB Standard clusters that are set to upgrade manually, when the upgrade has finished but has not yet been finalized, the **Version** column reports that the new version is **pending finalization**. The cluster will be finalized automatically after approximately 72 hours, if you take no further action. During the 72-hour period, you can choose to [roll back the upgrade](#roll-back-a-major-version-upgrade) or [manually finalize](#finalize-a-major-version-upgrade-manually) the upgrade early. Until the upgrade is finalized, certain new features may not be available. For details, refer to the release notes for the major version. 
