_includes/v22.1/known-limitations/row-level-ttl-limitations.md, before:

- You cannot use [foreign keys](foreign-key.html) to create references to or from a table that uses Row-Level TTL. [cockroachdb/cockroach#76407](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/issues/76407)
- Any queries you run against tables with Row-Level TTL enabled do not filter out expired rows from the result set (this includes [`UPDATE`s](update.html) and [`DELETE`s](delete.html)). This feature may be added in a future release. For now, follow the instructions in [Filter out expired rows from a selection query](row-level-ttl.html#filter-out-expired-rows-from-a-selection-query).
- The TTL cannot be customized based on the values of other columns in the row. [cockroachdb/cockroach#76916](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/issues/76916)
- The queries executed by Row-Level TTL are not yet optimized for performance:
  - They do not use any indexes that may be available on the [`crdb_internal_expiration` column](row-level-ttl.html#crdb-internal-expiration).
  - They do not take into account [node localities](cockroach-start.html#locality).
  - All deletes are run on a single node, instead of being distributed.
  - For details, see [cockroachdb/cockroach#76914](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/issues/76914)
- If you [override the TTL for a row by setting `crdb_internal_expiration` directly](row-level-ttl.html#set-the-row-level-ttl-for-an-individual-row), and the row is later updated (e.g., using an [`ON UPDATE` expression](create-table.html#on-update-expressions)), the TTL override is lost; it is reset to `now() + ttl_expire_after`.

Commit message:

Add more Row-level TTL details
Fixes the last bits of DOC-3545

Followup to cockroachdb/docs#14481

Summary of changes:

- Update the required privileges to remove incorrect reference to
  `admin` role

- Add note that the schema change backfill of
  `crdb_internal_expiration` (and its performance impact) is necessary
  in part due to the limitation that the TTL cannot be customized based
  on the values of other columns in the row

  - Also note that adding TTL to new tables is not affected by this
    limitation

_includes/v22.1/known-limitations/row-level-ttl-limitations.md, after:

- You cannot use [foreign keys](foreign-key.html) to create references to or from a table that uses Row-Level TTL. [cockroachdb/cockroach#76407](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/issues/76407)
- Any queries you run against tables with Row-Level TTL enabled do not filter out expired rows from the result set (this includes [`UPDATE`s](update.html) and [`DELETE`s](delete.html)). This feature may be added in a future release. For now, follow the instructions in [Filter out expired rows from a selection query](row-level-ttl.html#filter-out-expired-rows-from-a-selection-query).
- <a name="ttl-cannot-be-customized"></a> The TTL cannot be customized based on the values of other columns in the row. [cockroachdb/cockroach#76916](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/issues/76916)
  - Because of the above limitation, adding TTL to large existing tables [can negatively affect performance](row-level-ttl.html#ttl-existing-table-performance-note), since a new column must be created and backfilled for every row. Creating a new table with a TTL is not affected by this limitation.
- The queries executed by Row-Level TTL are not yet optimized for performance:
  - They do not use any indexes that may be available on the [`crdb_internal_expiration` column](row-level-ttl.html#crdb-internal-expiration).
  - They do not take into account [node localities](cockroach-start.html#locality).
  - All deletes are run on a single node, instead of being distributed.
  - For details, see [cockroachdb/cockroach#76914](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/issues/76914)
- If you [override the TTL for a row by setting `crdb_internal_expiration` directly](row-level-ttl.html#set-the-row-level-ttl-for-an-individual-row), and the row is later updated (e.g., using an [`ON UPDATE` expression](create-table.html#on-update-expressions)), the TTL override is lost; it is reset to `now() + ttl_expire_after`.
