v22.1/alter-database.md, before:

---
title: ALTER DATABASE
summary: Use the ALTER DATABASE statement to change an existing database.
toc: false
docs_area: reference.sql
---

The `ALTER DATABASE` [statement](sql-statements.html) applies a schema change to a database. For information on using `ALTER DATABASE`, see the pages for its relevant [subcommands](#subcommands).

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/misc/schema-change-stmt-note.md %}

## Subcommands

Subcommand | Description
-----------|------------
[`CONFIGURE ZONE`](configure-zone.html) | [Configure replication zones](configure-replication-zones.html) for a database.
[`OWNER TO`](owner-to.html) |  Change the owner of a database.
[`RENAME`](rename-database.html) | Change the name of a database.
[`ADD REGION`](add-region.html) |  Add a region to a [multi-region database](multiregion-overview.html).
[`DROP REGION`](drop-region.html) |  Drop a region from a [multi-region database](multiregion-overview.html).
[`SET PRIMARY REGION`](set-primary-region.html) |  Set the primary region of a [multi-region database](multiregion-overview.html).
[`ADD SUPER REGION`](add-super-region.html) | <span class="version-tag">New in v22.1:</span> Add a super region made up of a set of [database regions](multiregion-overview.html#super-regions) such that data from [regional tables](regional-tables.html) will be stored in only those regions.
[`DROP SUPER REGION`](drop-super-region.html) | <span class="version-tag">New in v22.1:</span> Drop a super region made up of a set of [database regions](multiregion-overview.html#super-regions).
[`ALTER SUPER REGION`](alter-super-region.html) | <span class="version-tag">New in v22.1:</span> Alter an existing [super region](multiregion-overview.html#super-regions) to include a different set of regions. A super region is made up of a set of regions added with [`ADD REGION`](add-region.html) such that data from [regional tables](regional-tables.html) will be stored in only those regions.
[`SET {session variable}`](alter-role.html#set-default-session-variable-values-for-a-specific-database) |  Set the default session variable values for the database. This syntax is identical to [`ALTER ROLE ALL IN DATABASE SET {session variable}`](alter-role.html).
`RESET {session variable}` |  Reset the default session variable values for the database to the system defaults. This syntax is identical to [`ALTER ROLE ALL IN DATABASE RESET {session variable}`](alter-role.html).
[`SURVIVE {ZONE,REGION} FAILURE`](survive-failure.html) |  Add a survival goal to a [multi-region database](multiregion-overview.html).

## Viewing schema changes

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/misc/schema-change-view-job.md %}

Commit message:

DOC-3423: Standardize "New in vXX.Y" version callouts (#13962)
Fixes DOC-3423

v22.1/alter-database.md, after:

---
title: ALTER DATABASE
summary: Use the ALTER DATABASE statement to change an existing database.
toc: false
docs_area: reference.sql
---

The `ALTER DATABASE` [statement](sql-statements.html) applies a schema change to a database. For information on using `ALTER DATABASE`, see the pages for its relevant [subcommands](#subcommands).

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/misc/schema-change-stmt-note.md %}

## Subcommands

Subcommand | Description
-----------|------------
[`CONFIGURE ZONE`](configure-zone.html) | [Configure replication zones](configure-replication-zones.html) for a database.
[`OWNER TO`](owner-to.html) |  Change the owner of a database.
[`RENAME`](rename-database.html) | Change the name of a database.
[`ADD REGION`](add-region.html) |  Add a region to a [multi-region database](multiregion-overview.html).
[`DROP REGION`](drop-region.html) |  Drop a region from a [multi-region database](multiregion-overview.html).
[`SET PRIMARY REGION`](set-primary-region.html) |  Set the primary region of a [multi-region database](multiregion-overview.html).
[`ADD SUPER REGION`](add-super-region.html) | {% include_cached new-in.html version="v22.1" %} Add a super region made up of a set of [database regions](multiregion-overview.html#super-regions) such that data from [regional tables](regional-tables.html) will be stored in only those regions.
[`DROP SUPER REGION`](drop-super-region.html) | {% include_cached new-in.html version="v22.1" %} Drop a super region made up of a set of [database regions](multiregion-overview.html#super-regions).
[`ALTER SUPER REGION`](alter-super-region.html) | {% include_cached new-in.html version="v22.1" %} Alter an existing [super region](multiregion-overview.html#super-regions) to include a different set of regions. A super region is made up of a set of regions added with [`ADD REGION`](add-region.html) such that data from [regional tables](regional-tables.html) will be stored in only those regions.
[`SET {session variable}`](alter-role.html#set-default-session-variable-values-for-a-specific-database) |  Set the default session variable values for the database. This syntax is identical to [`ALTER ROLE ALL IN DATABASE SET {session variable}`](alter-role.html).
`RESET {session variable}` |  Reset the default session variable values for the database to the system defaults. This syntax is identical to [`ALTER ROLE ALL IN DATABASE RESET {session variable}`](alter-role.html).
[`SURVIVE {ZONE,REGION} FAILURE`](survive-failure.html) |  Add a survival goal to a [multi-region database](multiregion-overview.html).

## Viewing schema changes

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/misc/schema-change-view-job.md %}
