v22.1/backup-and-restore-overview.md, before:

---
title: Backup and Restore Overview
summary: An overview of features in backup and restore at CockroachDB.
toc: true
docs_area: manage
---

This page provides an overview of the backup and restore features available in CockroachDB:

- [Backup and restore types](#backup-and-restore-types) and their product availability
- [SQL statements](#backup-and-restore-sql-statements) for working with backups and restores
- [Storage](#backup-storage) for backups

You can create full or incremental backups of a [cluster](backup.html#backup-a-cluster), [database](backup.html#backup-a-database), or [table](backup.html#backup-a-table-or-view). Taking regular backups of your data is an operational best practice.

## Backup and restore types

The following table outlines the available backup and restore types in CockroachDB. See each of the pages linked in the table for usage examples:

Backup / Restore Type             | Description                                                                                                                                                  | Product                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
-----------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[Full backup](take-full-and-incremental-backups.html)                       | An un-replicated copy of your cluster, database, or table's data. A full backup is the base for any further backups.                                         | All products
[Incremental backup](take-full-and-incremental-backups.html)               | A copy of the changes in your data since the specified base backup (a full or full and incremental).                                                         | {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}<br>{{ site.data.products.core }} with an [{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} license](enterprise-licensing.html)
[Backups with revision history](take-backups-with-revision-history-and-restore-from-a-point-in-time.html)     | A backup with revision history allows you to back up every change made within the garbage collection period leading up to and including the given timestamp. | {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}<br>{{ site.data.products.core }} with an [{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} license](enterprise-licensing.html)
[Point-in-time restore](take-backups-with-revision-history-and-restore-from-a-point-in-time.html)             | A restore from an arbitrary point in time within the revision history of a backup.                                                                           | {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}<br>{{ site.data.products.core }} with an [{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} license](enterprise-licensing.html)   
[Encrypted backup and restore](take-and-restore-encrypted-backups.html)      | An encrypted backup using a KMS or passphrase.                                                                                                               | {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}<br>{{ site.data.products.core }} with an [{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} license](enterprise-licensing.html)
[Locality-aware backup and restore](take-and-restore-locality-aware-backups.html) | A backup where each node writes files only to the backup destination that matches the node locality configured at node startup.                              | {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}<br>{{ site.data.products.core }} with an [{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} license](enterprise-licensing.html)
[Scheduled backup](manage-a-backup-schedule.html)                  | A schedule for periodic backups.                                                                                                                             | {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}<br>{{ site.data.products.core }} with an [{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} license](enterprise-licensing.html)  
[Automated backup](../cockroachcloud/backups-page.html)                 | Cockroach Labs runs full backups daily and incremental backups hourly for every CockroachDB Cloud cluster.                                                   | {{ site.data.products.db }} clusters                                                                                                                                     

## Backup and restore SQL statements

The following table outlines SQL statements you can use to create, configure, pause, and show backup and restore jobs:

 SQL Statement  | Description                                                                                 
----------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[`BACKUP`](backup.html)       | Create full and incremental backups.
[`SHOW JOBS`](show-jobs.html)    | Show a list of all running jobs or show the details of a specific job by its `job ID`.
[`PAUSE JOB`](pause-job.html)    | Pause a backup or restore job with its `job ID`.
[`RESUME JOB`](resume-job.html)   | Resume a backup or restore job with its `job ID`.  
[`CANCEL JOB`](cancel-job.html)   | Cancel a backup or restore job with its `job ID`.
[`SHOW BACKUP`](show-backup.html)  | Show a backup's details at the [backup collection's](take-full-and-incremental-backups.html#backup-collections) storage location.     
[`RESTORE`](restore.html)      | Restore full and incremental backups.
[`ALTER BACKUP`](alter-backup.html) | Add a new [KMS encryption key](take-and-restore-encrypted-backups.html#use-key-management-service) to an encrypted backup.

## Backup storage

We recommend taking backups to [cloud storage](use-cloud-storage-for-bulk-operations.html) and enabling object locking to protect the validity of your backups. CockroachDB supports Amazon S3, Azure Storage, and Google Cloud Storage for backups. Read the following usage information:

- [Example file URLs](use-cloud-storage-for-bulk-operations.html#example-file-urls) to form the URL that you pass to `BACKUP` and `RESTORE` statements.
- [Authentication](use-cloud-storage-for-bulk-operations.html#authentication) to set up authentication to a cloud storage bucket and include those credentials in the URL.

For detail on additional cloud storage features CockroachDB supports:

- [Object locking](use-cloud-storage-for-bulk-operations.html#object-locking) to prevent backups from being overwritten or deleted.
- [Storage Class (AWS S3 only)](use-cloud-storage-for-bulk-operations.html#amazon-s3-storage-classes) to set a specific storage class for your backups.

## See also

- Considerations for using [backup](backup.html#considerations) and [restore](restore.html#considerations)
- [Backup collections](take-full-and-incremental-backups.html#backup-collections) for details on how CockroachDB stores backups

Commit message:

Docs on backup job workflow and architecture (#14238)

v22.1/backup-and-restore-overview.md, after:

---
title: Backup and Restore Overview
summary: An overview of features in backup and restore at CockroachDB.
toc: true
docs_area: manage
---

This page provides an overview of the backup and restore features available in CockroachDB:

- [Backup and restore types](#backup-and-restore-types) and their product availability
- [SQL statements](#backup-and-restore-sql-statements) for working with backups and restores
- [Storage](#backup-storage) for backups

You can create full or incremental backups of a [cluster](backup.html#backup-a-cluster), [database](backup.html#backup-a-database), or [table](backup.html#backup-a-table-or-view). Taking regular backups of your data is an operational best practice.

For an explanation of how a backup works, see [Backup Architecture](backup-architecture.html).

## Backup and restore types

The following table outlines the available backup and restore types in CockroachDB. See each of the pages linked in the table for usage examples:

Backup / Restore Type             | Description                                                                                                                                                  | Product                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
-----------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[Full backup](take-full-and-incremental-backups.html)                       | An un-replicated copy of your cluster, database, or table's data. A full backup is the base for any further backups.                                         | All products
[Incremental backup](take-full-and-incremental-backups.html)               | A copy of the changes in your data since the specified base backup (a full or full and incremental).                                                         | {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}<br>{{ site.data.products.core }} with an [{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} license](enterprise-licensing.html)
[Backups with revision history](take-backups-with-revision-history-and-restore-from-a-point-in-time.html)     | A backup with revision history allows you to back up every change made within the garbage collection period leading up to and including the given timestamp. | {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}<br>{{ site.data.products.core }} with an [{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} license](enterprise-licensing.html)
[Point-in-time restore](take-backups-with-revision-history-and-restore-from-a-point-in-time.html)             | A restore from an arbitrary point in time within the revision history of a backup.                                                                           | {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}<br>{{ site.data.products.core }} with an [{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} license](enterprise-licensing.html)   
[Encrypted backup and restore](take-and-restore-encrypted-backups.html)      | An encrypted backup using a KMS or passphrase.                                                                                                               | {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}<br>{{ site.data.products.core }} with an [{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} license](enterprise-licensing.html)
[Locality-aware backup and restore](take-and-restore-locality-aware-backups.html) | A backup where each node writes files only to the backup destination that matches the node locality configured at node startup.                              | {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}<br>{{ site.data.products.core }} with an [{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} license](enterprise-licensing.html)
[Scheduled backup](manage-a-backup-schedule.html)                  | A schedule for periodic backups.                                                                                                                             | {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}<br>{{ site.data.products.core }} with an [{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} license](enterprise-licensing.html)  
[Automated backup](../cockroachcloud/backups-page.html)                 | Cockroach Labs runs full backups daily and incremental backups hourly for every CockroachDB Cloud cluster.                                                   | {{ site.data.products.db }} clusters                                                                                                                                     

## Backup and restore SQL statements

The following table outlines SQL statements you can use to create, configure, pause, and show backup and restore jobs:

 SQL Statement  | Description                                                                                 
----------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[`BACKUP`](backup.html)       | Create full and incremental backups.
[`SHOW JOBS`](show-jobs.html)    | Show a list of all running jobs or show the details of a specific job by its `job ID`.
[`PAUSE JOB`](pause-job.html)    | Pause a backup or restore job with its `job ID`.
[`RESUME JOB`](resume-job.html)   | Resume a backup or restore job with its `job ID`.  
[`CANCEL JOB`](cancel-job.html)   | Cancel a backup or restore job with its `job ID`.
[`SHOW BACKUP`](show-backup.html)  | Show a backup's details at the [backup collection's](take-full-and-incremental-backups.html#backup-collections) storage location.     
[`RESTORE`](restore.html)      | Restore full and incremental backups.
[`ALTER BACKUP`](alter-backup.html) | Add a new [KMS encryption key](take-and-restore-encrypted-backups.html#use-key-management-service) to an encrypted backup.

## Backup storage

We recommend taking backups to [cloud storage](use-cloud-storage-for-bulk-operations.html) and enabling object locking to protect the validity of your backups. CockroachDB supports Amazon S3, Azure Storage, and Google Cloud Storage for backups. Read the following usage information:

- [Example file URLs](use-cloud-storage-for-bulk-operations.html#example-file-urls) to form the URL that you pass to `BACKUP` and `RESTORE` statements.
- [Authentication](use-cloud-storage-for-bulk-operations.html#authentication) to set up authentication to a cloud storage bucket and include those credentials in the URL.

For detail on additional cloud storage features CockroachDB supports:

- [Object locking](use-cloud-storage-for-bulk-operations.html#object-locking) to prevent backups from being overwritten or deleted.
- [Storage Class (AWS S3 only)](use-cloud-storage-for-bulk-operations.html#amazon-s3-storage-classes) to set a specific storage class for your backups.

## See also

- Considerations for using [backup](backup.html#considerations) and [restore](restore.html#considerations)
- [Backup collections](take-full-and-incremental-backups.html#backup-collections) for details on how CockroachDB stores backups
