v22.1/create-schedule-for-backup.md, before:

---
title: CREATE SCHEDULE FOR BACKUP
summary: The CREATE SCHEDULE FOR BACKUP statement creates a schedule for periodic backups.
toc: true
docs_area: reference.sql
---

 The `CREATE SCHEDULE FOR BACKUP` [statement](sql-statements.html) creates a schedule for periodic [backups](backup.html).

For more information about creating, managing, monitoring, and restoring from a scheduled backup, see [Manage a Backup Schedule](manage-a-backup-schedule.html).

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
Core users can only use backup scheduling for [full backups](#create-a-schedule-for-full-backups-only-core) of clusters, databases, or tables.

To use the other backup features, you need an [Enterprise license](enterprise-licensing.html).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Required privileges

- Only members of the [`admin` role](security-reference/authorization.html#default-roles) can run `CREATE SCHEDULE FOR BACKUP`. By default, the `root` user belongs to the `admin` role.
- `BACKUP` requires full read and write (including delete and overwrite) permissions to its target destination.

## Synopsis

~~~
CREATE SCHEDULE [IF NOT EXISTS] <label>
FOR BACKUP [<targets>] INTO <location>
[WITH <backup_options>[=<value>] [, ...]]
RECURRING [crontab] [FULL BACKUP <crontab|ALWAYS>]
[WITH SCHEDULE OPTIONS <schedule_option>[= <value>] [, ...] ]

Targets:
   Empty targets list: backup full cluster.
   TABLE <table_pattern> [, ...]
   DATABASE <database_name> [, ...]
~~~

## Parameters

 Parameter                              | Description
----------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
`IF NOT EXISTS`                         |  Use to specify that a scheduled backup should not be created if the [`label`](#label) already exists. Produces an error if the schedule label already exists, or if the `label` is not specified.
<a name="label"></a>`label`             | The name used to identify the backup schedule. This is optional and does not need to be unique. If not provided, the schedule will be assigned the name `BACKUP`.
`table_pattern`                         | The [table(s)](create-table.html) or [view(s)](views.html) you want to back up.
`database_name`                         | The name of the [database(s)](create-database.html) you want to back up (i.e., create backups of all tables and views in the database).
`location`                              | The URI where you want to store the backup. The backup files will be stored in year > month > day subdirectories. The location can be [cloud storage](use-cloud-storage-for-bulk-operations.html), or `nodelocal`.<br><br><b>Note:</b> If you want to schedule a backup using temporary credentials, we recommend that you use `implicit` authentication; otherwise, you'll need to drop and then recreate schedules each time you need to update the credentials.
`backup_options`                        | Control the backup behavior with a comma-separated list of [options](#backup-options).
`RECURRING crontab`                     | Specifies when the backup should be taken. By default, these are incremental backups that capture changes since the last backup and append to the current full backup. The schedule is specified as a [`STRING`](string.html) in [crontab format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron). All times in UTC. <br><br>Example: `'@daily'` (run daily at midnight)
<a name="full-backup-clause"></a>`FULL BACKUP crontab` | Specifies when to take a new full backup. The schedule is specified as a [`STRING`](string.html) in [crontab format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron) or as `ALWAYS`. <br><br>If `FULL BACKUP ALWAYS` is specified, then the backups triggered by the `RECURRING` clause will always be full backups. For free users, `ALWAYS` is the only accepted value of `FULL BACKUP`.<br><br>If the `FULL BACKUP` clause is omitted, CockroachDB will default to the following full backup schedule: <ul><li>`RECURRING` <= 1 hour: Default to `FULL BACKUP '@daily'`</li><li>`RECURRING` <= 1 day: Default to `FULL BACKUP '@weekly'`</li><li>Otherwise: Default to `FULL BACKUP ALWAYS`</li></ul>
`WITH SCHEDULE OPTIONS schedule_option` | _Experimental feature._ Control the schedule behavior with a comma-separated list of [these options](#schedule-options).

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
For schedules that include both [full and incremental backups](take-full-and-incremental-backups.html), CockroachDB will create two schedules (one for each type).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

### Backup options

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/backups/backup-options.md %}

### Schedule options

{{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}
**This is an experimental feature.**  Its interface, options, and outputs are subject to change, and there may be bugs.

If you encounter a bug, please [file an issue](file-an-issue.html).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

 Option                     | Value                                   | Description
----------------------------+-----------------------------------------+------------------------------
`first_run`                 | [`TIMESTAMPTZ`](timestamp.html) / `now` | Execute the schedule at the specified time in the future. If not specified, the default behavior is to execute the schedule based on its next `RECURRING` time.
`on_execution_failure`      | `retry` / `reschedule` / `pause`        | If an error occurs during the backup execution, do the following: <ul><li>`retry`: Retry the backup right away.</li><li>`reschedule`: Retry the backup by rescheduling it based on the `RECURRING` expression.</li><li>`pause`: Pause the schedule. This requires manual intervention to [resume the schedule](resume-schedules.html).</li></ul><br>**Default**: `reschedule`
<a name="on-previous-running-option"></a>`on_previous_running`       | `start` / `skip` / `wait`               | If the previous backup started by the schedule is still running, do the following: <ul><li>`start`: Start the new backup anyway, even if the previous one still running.</li><li>`skip`: Skip the new backup and run the next backup based on the `RECURRING` expression.</li><li>`wait`: Wait for the previous backup to complete.</li></ul><br>**Default**: `wait`
`ignore_existing_backups`   | N/A                                     | If backups were already created in the [destination](use-cloud-storage-for-bulk-operations.html) that the new schedule references, this option must be passed to acknowledge that the new schedule may be backing up different objects.

## Considerations

- We recommend that you schedule your backups at a cadence that your cluster can keep up with; for example, if a previous backup is still running when it is time to start the next one, adjust the schedule so the backups do not end up falling behind or update the [`on_previous_running` option](#on-previous-running-option).
- To prevent scheduled backups from falling behind, first determine how long a single backup takes and use that as your starting point for the schedule's cadence.
- Ensure you are monitoring your backup schedule (e.g., [Prometheus](monitor-cockroachdb-with-prometheus.html)) and alerting metrics that will confirm that your backups are completing, but also that they're not running more concurrently than you expect.
- Ensure that your [GC window](configure-replication-zones.html#gc-ttlseconds) is long enough to accommodate your backup schedule, otherwise your incremental backups will throw [an error](common-errors.html#protected-ts-verification-error). For example, if you set up your schedule to be `RECURRING '@daily'` but your GC window is less than 1 day, all your incremental backups will fail.
- The `AS OF SYSTEM TIME` clause cannot be set on scheduled backups. Scheduled backups are started shortly after the scheduled time has passed by an internal polling mechanism and are automatically run with `AS OF SYSTEM TIME` set to the time at which the backup was scheduled to run.
- If you want to schedule a backup using temporary credentials, we recommend that you use `implicit` authentication; otherwise, you'll need to drop and then recreate schedules each time you need to update the credentials.

## View and control backup schedules

Once a backup schedule is successfully created, you can do the following:

 Action                | SQL Statement
-----------------------+-----------------
View the schedule      | [`SHOW SCHEDULES`](show-schedules.html)
Pause the schedule     | [`PAUSE SCHEDULES`](pause-schedules.html)
Resume the schedule    | [`RESUME SCHEDULES`](resume-schedules.html)
Drop the schedule      | [`DROP SCHEDULES`](drop-schedules.html)

## View and control a backup initiated by a schedule

After CockroachDB successfully initiates a scheduled backup, it registers the backup as a job. You can do the following with each individual backup job:

 Action                | SQL Statement
-----------------------+-----------------
View the backup status | [`SHOW JOBS`](show-jobs.html)
Pause the backup       | [`PAUSE JOB`](pause-job.html)
Resume the backup      | [`RESUME JOB`](resume-job.html)
Cancel the backup      | [`CANCEL JOB`](cancel-job.html)

You can also visit the [**Jobs** page](ui-jobs-page.html) of the DB Console to view job details. The `BACKUP` statement will return when the backup is finished or if it encounters an error.

## Examples

### Create a schedule for full backups only (core)

Core users can only use backup scheduling for full backups of clusters, databases, or tables. Full backups are taken with the `FULL BACKUP ALWAYS` clause, for example:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> CREATE SCHEDULE core_schedule_label
  FOR BACKUP INTO 's3://test/schedule-test-core?AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=x&AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=x'
    RECURRING '@daily'
    FULL BACKUP ALWAYS
    WITH SCHEDULE OPTIONS first_run = 'now';
~~~
~~~
     schedule_id     |        name         | status |         first_run         | schedule |                                                                                       backup_stmt
---------------------+---------------------+--------+---------------------------+----------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  588799238330220545 | core_schedule_label | ACTIVE | 2020-09-11 00:00:00+00:00 | @daily   | BACKUP INTO 's3://test/schedule-test-core?AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=x&AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=x' WITH detached
(1 row)
~~~

To use the other backup features, you need an [Enterprise license](enterprise-licensing.html).

### Create a scheduled backup for a cluster

This example creates a schedule for a cluster backup with revision history that's taken every day at midnight:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> CREATE SCHEDULE schedule_label
  FOR BACKUP INTO 's3://test/backups/schedule_test?AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=x&AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=x'
    WITH revision_history
    RECURRING '@daily';
~~~

~~~
     schedule_id     |     name       |                     status                     |            first_run             | schedule |                                                                               backup_stmt
---------------------+----------------+------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------+----------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  588796190000218113 | schedule_label | PAUSED: Waiting for initial backup to complete | NULL                             | @daily   | BACKUP INTO LATEST IN 's3://test/schedule-test?AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=x&AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=x' WITH revision_history, detached
  588796190012702721 | schedule_label | ACTIVE                                         | 2020-09-10 16:52:17.280821+00:00 | @weekly  | BACKUP INTO 's3://test/schedule-test?AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=x&AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=x' WITH revision_history, detached
(2 rows)
~~~

Because the [`FULL BACKUP` clause](#full-backup-clause) was not included, CockroachDB also scheduled a full backup to run `@weekly`. This is the default cadence for incremental backups `RECURRING` > 1 hour but <= 1 day.

### Create a scheduled backup for a database

This example creates a schedule for a backup of the database `movr` with revision history that's taken every day 1 minute past midnight (`00:00:01`):

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> CREATE SCHEDULE schedule_database
  FOR BACKUP DATABASE movr INTO 's3://test/schedule-database?AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=x&AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=x'
    WITH revision_history
    RECURRING '1 0 * * *';
~~~

~~~
     schedule_id     |       name        |                     status                     |            first_run             | schedule  |                                                                           backup_stmt
---------------------+-------------------+------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------+-----------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  588819866656997377 | schedule_database | PAUSED: Waiting for initial backup to complete | NULL                             | 1 0 * * * | BACKUP DATABASE movr INTO LATEST IN 's3://test/schedule-database?AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=x&AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=x' WITH revision_history, detached
  588819866674233345 | schedule_database | ACTIVE                                         | 2020-09-10 18:52:42.823003+00:00 | @weekly   | BACKUP DATABASE movr INTO 's3://test/schedule-database?AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=x&AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=x' WITH revision_history, detached
(2 rows)
~~~

Because the [`FULL BACKUP` clause](#full-backup-clause) was not included, CockroachDB also scheduled a full backup to run `@weekly`. This is the default cadence for incremental backups `RECURRING` > 1 hour but <= 1 day.

### Create a scheduled backup for a table

This example creates a schedule for a backup of the table `movr.vehicles` with revision history that's taken every hour:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> CREATE SCHEDULE schedule_table
  FOR BACKUP TABLE movr.vehicles INTO 's3://test/schedule-table?AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=x&AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=x'
    WITH revision_history
    RECURRING '@hourly';
~~~

~~~
     schedule_id     |       name     |                     status                     |            first_run             | schedule |                                                                             backup_stmt
---------------------+----------------+------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------+----------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  588820615348027393 | schedule_table | PAUSED: Waiting for initial backup to complete | NULL                             | @hourly  | BACKUP TABLE movr.vehicles INTO LATEST IN 's3://test/schedule-table?AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=x&AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=x' WITH revision_history, detached
  588820615382302721 | schedule_table | ACTIVE                                         | 2020-09-10 18:56:31.305782+00:00 | @daily   | BACKUP TABLE movr.vehicles INTO 's3://test/schedule-table?AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=x&AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=x' WITH revision_history, detached
(2 rows)
~~~

Because the [`FULL BACKUP` clause](#full-backup-clause) was not included, CockroachDB also scheduled a full backup to run `@daily`. This is the default cadence for incremental backups `RECURRING` <= 1 hour.

### Create a scheduled backup with a scheduled first run

This example creates a schedule for a backup of the table `movr.vehicles` with revision history that's taken every hour, with its first run scheduled for `2020-09-15 00:00:00.00` (UTC):

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> CREATE SCHEDULE scheduled_first_run
  FOR BACKUP TABLE movr.vehicles INTO 's3://test/schedule-table?AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=x&AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=x'
    WITH revision_history
    RECURRING '@hourly'
    WITH SCHEDULE OPTIONS first_run = '2020-09-15 00:00:00.00';
~~~

~~~
     schedule_id     |        name         |                     status                     |         first_run         | schedule |                                                                                backup_stmt
---------------------+---------------------+------------------------------------------------+---------------------------+----------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  589963390457741313 | scheduled_first_run | PAUSED: Waiting for initial backup to complete | NULL                      | @hourly  | BACKUP TABLE movr.vehicles INTO LATEST IN 's3://test/scheduled-first-run?AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=x&AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=x' WITH revision_history, detached
  589963390487363585 | scheduled_first_run | ACTIVE                                         | 2020-09-15 00:00:00+00:00 | @daily   | BACKUP TABLE movr.vehicles INTO 's3://test/scheduled-first-run?AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=x&AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=x' WITH revision_history, detached
(2 rows)
~~~

Because the [`FULL BACKUP` clause](#full-backup-clause) was not included, CockroachDB also scheduled a full backup to run `@daily`. This is the default cadence for incremental backups `RECURRING` <= 1 hour.

### View scheduled backup details

When a [backup is created by a schedule](create-schedule-for-backup.html), it is stored within a collection of backups in the given location. To view details for a backup created by a schedule, you can use the following:

- `SHOW BACKUPS IN collectionURI` statement to [view a list of the full backup's subdirectories](show-backup.html#view-a-list-of-the-available-full-backup-subdirectories).
- `SHOW BACKUP FROM subdirectory IN collectionURI` statement to [view a list of the full and incremental backups that are stored in a specific full backup's subdirectory](show-backup.html#view-a-list-of-the-full-and-incremental-backups-in-a-specific-full-backup-subdirectory).

For more details, see [`SHOW BACKUP`](show-backup.html).

## See also

- [Manage a Backup Schedule](manage-a-backup-schedule.html)
- [`BACKUP`](backup.html)
- [`RESTORE`](restore.html)
- [`SHOW BACKUP`](show-backup.html)
- [`SHOW SCHEDULES`](show-schedules.html)
- [`PAUSE SCHEDULES`](pause-schedules.html)
- [`RESUME SCHEDULES`](resume-schedules.html)
- [`DROP SCHEDULES`](drop-schedules.html)
- [`PAUSE JOB`](pause-job.html)
- [`RESUME JOB`](pause-job.html)
- [`CANCEL JOB`](cancel-job.html)
- [Take Full and Incremental Backups](take-full-and-incremental-backups.html)
- [Use the Built-in SQL Client](cockroach-sql.html)
- [`cockroach` Commands Overview](cockroach-commands.html)

Commit message:

Added missing parameter to table for create schedule for backup (#14523)

v22.1/create-schedule-for-backup.md, after:

---
title: CREATE SCHEDULE FOR BACKUP
summary: The CREATE SCHEDULE FOR BACKUP statement creates a schedule for periodic backups.
toc: true
docs_area: reference.sql
---

 The `CREATE SCHEDULE FOR BACKUP` [statement](sql-statements.html) creates a schedule for periodic [backups](backup.html).

For more information about creating, managing, monitoring, and restoring from a scheduled backup, see [Manage a Backup Schedule](manage-a-backup-schedule.html).

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
Core users can only use backup scheduling for [full backups](#create-a-schedule-for-full-backups-only-core) of clusters, databases, or tables.

To use the other backup features, you need an [Enterprise license](enterprise-licensing.html).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Required privileges

- Only members of the [`admin` role](security-reference/authorization.html#default-roles) can run `CREATE SCHEDULE FOR BACKUP`. By default, the `root` user belongs to the `admin` role.
- `BACKUP` requires full read and write (including delete and overwrite) permissions to its target destination.

## Synopsis

~~~
CREATE SCHEDULE [IF NOT EXISTS] <label>
FOR BACKUP [<targets>] INTO <location>
[WITH <backup_options>[=<value>] [, ...]]
RECURRING [crontab] [FULL BACKUP <crontab|ALWAYS>]
[WITH SCHEDULE OPTIONS <schedule_option>[= <value>] [, ...] ]

Targets:
   Empty targets list: backup full cluster.
   TABLE <table_pattern> [, ...]
   DATABASE <database_name> [, ...]
~~~

## Parameters

 Parameter                              | Description
----------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
`IF NOT EXISTS`                         |  Use to specify that a scheduled backup should not be created if the [`label`](#label) already exists. Produces an error if the schedule label already exists, or if the `label` is not specified.
<a name="label"></a>`label`             | The name used to identify the backup schedule. This is optional and does not need to be unique. If not provided, the schedule will be assigned the name `BACKUP`.
`targets`                               | The targets you want to back up: <ul><li>[cluster](#create-a-scheduled-backup-for-a-cluster) `[ ]`</li><li>[database](#create-a-scheduled-backup-for-a-database) `DATABASE <database_name> [, ...]`</li><li>[table](#create-a-scheduled-backup-for-a-table) `TABLE <table_pattern> [, ...]`</li></ul>
`table_pattern`                         | The [table(s)](create-table.html) or [view(s)](views.html) you want to back up.
`database_name`                         | The name of the [database(s)](create-database.html) you want to back up (i.e., create backups of all tables and views in the database).
`location`                              | The URI where you want to store the backup. The backup files will be stored in year > month > day subdirectories. The location can be [cloud storage](use-cloud-storage-for-bulk-operations.html), or `nodelocal`.<br><br><b>Note:</b> If you want to schedule a backup using temporary credentials, we recommend that you use `implicit` authentication; otherwise, you'll need to drop and then recreate schedules each time you need to update the credentials.
`backup_options`                        | Control the backup behavior with a comma-separated list of [options](#backup-options).
`RECURRING crontab`                     | Specifies when the backup should be taken. By default, these are incremental backups that capture changes since the last backup and append to the current full backup. The schedule is specified as a [`STRING`](string.html) in [crontab format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron). All times in UTC. <br><br>Example: `'@daily'` (run daily at midnight)
<a name="full-backup-clause"></a>`FULL BACKUP crontab` | Specifies when to take a new full backup. The schedule is specified as a [`STRING`](string.html) in [crontab format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron) or as `ALWAYS`. <br><br>If `FULL BACKUP ALWAYS` is specified, then the backups triggered by the `RECURRING` clause will always be full backups. For free users, `ALWAYS` is the only accepted value of `FULL BACKUP`.<br><br>If the `FULL BACKUP` clause is omitted, CockroachDB will default to the following full backup schedule: <ul><li>`RECURRING` <= 1 hour: Default to `FULL BACKUP '@daily'`</li><li>`RECURRING` <= 1 day: Default to `FULL BACKUP '@weekly'`</li><li>Otherwise: Default to `FULL BACKUP ALWAYS`</li></ul>
`WITH SCHEDULE OPTIONS schedule_option` | _Experimental feature._ Control the schedule behavior with a comma-separated list of [these options](#schedule-options).

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
For schedules that include both [full and incremental backups](take-full-and-incremental-backups.html), CockroachDB will create two schedules (one for each type).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

### Backup options

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/backups/backup-options.md %}

### Schedule options

{{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}
**This is an experimental feature.**  Its interface, options, and outputs are subject to change, and there may be bugs.

If you encounter a bug, please [file an issue](file-an-issue.html).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

 Option                     | Value                                   | Description
----------------------------+-----------------------------------------+------------------------------
`first_run`                 | [`TIMESTAMPTZ`](timestamp.html) / `now` | Execute the schedule at the specified time in the future. If not specified, the default behavior is to execute the schedule based on its next `RECURRING` time.
`on_execution_failure`      | `retry` / `reschedule` / `pause`        | If an error occurs during the backup execution, do the following: <ul><li>`retry`: Retry the backup right away.</li><li>`reschedule`: Retry the backup by rescheduling it based on the `RECURRING` expression.</li><li>`pause`: Pause the schedule. This requires manual intervention to [resume the schedule](resume-schedules.html).</li></ul><br>**Default**: `reschedule`
<a name="on-previous-running-option"></a>`on_previous_running`       | `start` / `skip` / `wait`               | If the previous backup started by the schedule is still running, do the following: <ul><li>`start`: Start the new backup anyway, even if the previous one still running.</li><li>`skip`: Skip the new backup and run the next backup based on the `RECURRING` expression.</li><li>`wait`: Wait for the previous backup to complete.</li></ul><br>**Default**: `wait`
`ignore_existing_backups`   | N/A                                     | If backups were already created in the [destination](use-cloud-storage-for-bulk-operations.html) that the new schedule references, this option must be passed to acknowledge that the new schedule may be backing up different objects.

## Considerations

- We recommend that you schedule your backups at a cadence that your cluster can keep up with; for example, if a previous backup is still running when it is time to start the next one, adjust the schedule so the backups do not end up falling behind or update the [`on_previous_running` option](#on-previous-running-option).
- To prevent scheduled backups from falling behind, first determine how long a single backup takes and use that as your starting point for the schedule's cadence.
- Ensure you are monitoring your backup schedule (e.g., [Prometheus](monitor-cockroachdb-with-prometheus.html)) and alerting metrics that will confirm that your backups are completing, but also that they're not running more concurrently than you expect.
- Ensure that your [GC window](configure-replication-zones.html#gc-ttlseconds) is long enough to accommodate your backup schedule, otherwise your incremental backups will throw [an error](common-errors.html#protected-ts-verification-error). For example, if you set up your schedule to be `RECURRING '@daily'` but your GC window is less than 1 day, all your incremental backups will fail.
- The `AS OF SYSTEM TIME` clause cannot be set on scheduled backups. Scheduled backups are started shortly after the scheduled time has passed by an internal polling mechanism and are automatically run with `AS OF SYSTEM TIME` set to the time at which the backup was scheduled to run.
- If you want to schedule a backup using temporary credentials, we recommend that you use `implicit` authentication; otherwise, you'll need to drop and then recreate schedules each time you need to update the credentials.

## View and control backup schedules

Once a backup schedule is successfully created, you can do the following:

 Action                | SQL Statement
-----------------------+-----------------
View the schedule      | [`SHOW SCHEDULES`](show-schedules.html)
Pause the schedule     | [`PAUSE SCHEDULES`](pause-schedules.html)
Resume the schedule    | [`RESUME SCHEDULES`](resume-schedules.html)
Drop the schedule      | [`DROP SCHEDULES`](drop-schedules.html)

## View and control a backup initiated by a schedule

After CockroachDB successfully initiates a scheduled backup, it registers the backup as a job. You can do the following with each individual backup job:

 Action                | SQL Statement
-----------------------+-----------------
View the backup status | [`SHOW JOBS`](show-jobs.html)
Pause the backup       | [`PAUSE JOB`](pause-job.html)
Resume the backup      | [`RESUME JOB`](resume-job.html)
Cancel the backup      | [`CANCEL JOB`](cancel-job.html)

You can also visit the [**Jobs** page](ui-jobs-page.html) of the DB Console to view job details. The `BACKUP` statement will return when the backup is finished or if it encounters an error.

## Examples

### Create a schedule for full backups only (core)

Core users can only use backup scheduling for full backups of clusters, databases, or tables. Full backups are taken with the `FULL BACKUP ALWAYS` clause, for example:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> CREATE SCHEDULE core_schedule_label
  FOR BACKUP INTO 's3://test/schedule-test-core?AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=x&AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=x'
    RECURRING '@daily'
    FULL BACKUP ALWAYS
    WITH SCHEDULE OPTIONS first_run = 'now';
~~~
~~~
     schedule_id     |        name         | status |         first_run         | schedule |                                                                                       backup_stmt
---------------------+---------------------+--------+---------------------------+----------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  588799238330220545 | core_schedule_label | ACTIVE | 2020-09-11 00:00:00+00:00 | @daily   | BACKUP INTO 's3://test/schedule-test-core?AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=x&AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=x' WITH detached
(1 row)
~~~

To use the other backup features, you need an [Enterprise license](enterprise-licensing.html).

### Create a scheduled backup for a cluster

This example creates a schedule for a cluster backup with revision history that's taken every day at midnight:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> CREATE SCHEDULE schedule_label
  FOR BACKUP INTO 's3://test/backups/schedule_test?AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=x&AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=x'
    WITH revision_history
    RECURRING '@daily';
~~~

~~~
     schedule_id     |     name       |                     status                     |            first_run             | schedule |                                                                               backup_stmt
---------------------+----------------+------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------+----------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  588796190000218113 | schedule_label | PAUSED: Waiting for initial backup to complete | NULL                             | @daily   | BACKUP INTO LATEST IN 's3://test/schedule-test?AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=x&AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=x' WITH revision_history, detached
  588796190012702721 | schedule_label | ACTIVE                                         | 2020-09-10 16:52:17.280821+00:00 | @weekly  | BACKUP INTO 's3://test/schedule-test?AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=x&AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=x' WITH revision_history, detached
(2 rows)
~~~

Because the [`FULL BACKUP` clause](#full-backup-clause) was not included, CockroachDB also scheduled a full backup to run `@weekly`. This is the default cadence for incremental backups `RECURRING` > 1 hour but <= 1 day.

### Create a scheduled backup for a database

This example creates a schedule for a backup of the database `movr` with revision history that's taken every day 1 minute past midnight (`00:00:01`):

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> CREATE SCHEDULE schedule_database
  FOR BACKUP DATABASE movr INTO 's3://test/schedule-database?AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=x&AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=x'
    WITH revision_history
    RECURRING '1 0 * * *';
~~~

~~~
     schedule_id     |       name        |                     status                     |            first_run             | schedule  |                                                                           backup_stmt
---------------------+-------------------+------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------+-----------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  588819866656997377 | schedule_database | PAUSED: Waiting for initial backup to complete | NULL                             | 1 0 * * * | BACKUP DATABASE movr INTO LATEST IN 's3://test/schedule-database?AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=x&AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=x' WITH revision_history, detached
  588819866674233345 | schedule_database | ACTIVE                                         | 2020-09-10 18:52:42.823003+00:00 | @weekly   | BACKUP DATABASE movr INTO 's3://test/schedule-database?AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=x&AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=x' WITH revision_history, detached
(2 rows)
~~~

Because the [`FULL BACKUP` clause](#full-backup-clause) was not included, CockroachDB also scheduled a full backup to run `@weekly`. This is the default cadence for incremental backups `RECURRING` > 1 hour but <= 1 day.

### Create a scheduled backup for a table

This example creates a schedule for a backup of the table `movr.vehicles` with revision history that's taken every hour:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> CREATE SCHEDULE schedule_table
  FOR BACKUP TABLE movr.vehicles INTO 's3://test/schedule-table?AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=x&AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=x'
    WITH revision_history
    RECURRING '@hourly';
~~~

~~~
     schedule_id     |       name     |                     status                     |            first_run             | schedule |                                                                             backup_stmt
---------------------+----------------+------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------+----------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  588820615348027393 | schedule_table | PAUSED: Waiting for initial backup to complete | NULL                             | @hourly  | BACKUP TABLE movr.vehicles INTO LATEST IN 's3://test/schedule-table?AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=x&AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=x' WITH revision_history, detached
  588820615382302721 | schedule_table | ACTIVE                                         | 2020-09-10 18:56:31.305782+00:00 | @daily   | BACKUP TABLE movr.vehicles INTO 's3://test/schedule-table?AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=x&AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=x' WITH revision_history, detached
(2 rows)
~~~

Because the [`FULL BACKUP` clause](#full-backup-clause) was not included, CockroachDB also scheduled a full backup to run `@daily`. This is the default cadence for incremental backups `RECURRING` <= 1 hour.

### Create a scheduled backup with a scheduled first run

This example creates a schedule for a backup of the table `movr.vehicles` with revision history that's taken every hour, with its first run scheduled for `2020-09-15 00:00:00.00` (UTC):

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> CREATE SCHEDULE scheduled_first_run
  FOR BACKUP TABLE movr.vehicles INTO 's3://test/schedule-table?AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=x&AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=x'
    WITH revision_history
    RECURRING '@hourly'
    WITH SCHEDULE OPTIONS first_run = '2020-09-15 00:00:00.00';
~~~

~~~
     schedule_id     |        name         |                     status                     |         first_run         | schedule |                                                                                backup_stmt
---------------------+---------------------+------------------------------------------------+---------------------------+----------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  589963390457741313 | scheduled_first_run | PAUSED: Waiting for initial backup to complete | NULL                      | @hourly  | BACKUP TABLE movr.vehicles INTO LATEST IN 's3://test/scheduled-first-run?AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=x&AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=x' WITH revision_history, detached
  589963390487363585 | scheduled_first_run | ACTIVE                                         | 2020-09-15 00:00:00+00:00 | @daily   | BACKUP TABLE movr.vehicles INTO 's3://test/scheduled-first-run?AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=x&AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=x' WITH revision_history, detached
(2 rows)
~~~

Because the [`FULL BACKUP` clause](#full-backup-clause) was not included, CockroachDB also scheduled a full backup to run `@daily`. This is the default cadence for incremental backups `RECURRING` <= 1 hour.

### View scheduled backup details

When a [backup is created by a schedule](create-schedule-for-backup.html), it is stored within a collection of backups in the given location. To view details for a backup created by a schedule, you can use the following:

- `SHOW BACKUPS IN collectionURI` statement to [view a list of the full backup's subdirectories](show-backup.html#view-a-list-of-the-available-full-backup-subdirectories).
- `SHOW BACKUP FROM subdirectory IN collectionURI` statement to [view a list of the full and incremental backups that are stored in a specific full backup's subdirectory](show-backup.html#view-a-list-of-the-full-and-incremental-backups-in-a-specific-full-backup-subdirectory).

For more details, see [`SHOW BACKUP`](show-backup.html).

## See also

- [Manage a Backup Schedule](manage-a-backup-schedule.html)
- [`BACKUP`](backup.html)
- [`RESTORE`](restore.html)
- [`SHOW BACKUP`](show-backup.html)
- [`SHOW SCHEDULES`](show-schedules.html)
- [`PAUSE SCHEDULES`](pause-schedules.html)
- [`RESUME SCHEDULES`](resume-schedules.html)
- [`DROP SCHEDULES`](drop-schedules.html)
- [`PAUSE JOB`](pause-job.html)
- [`RESUME JOB`](pause-job.html)
- [`CANCEL JOB`](cancel-job.html)
- [Take Full and Incremental Backups](take-full-and-incremental-backups.html)
- [Use the Built-in SQL Client](cockroach-sql.html)
- [`cockroach` Commands Overview](cockroach-commands.html)
