v22.1/deploy-cockroachdb-on-aws.md, before:

---
title: Deploy CockroachDB on AWS EC2
summary: Learn how to deploy CockroachDB on Amazon's AWS EC2 platform.
toc: true
toc_not_nested: true
ssh-link: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-key-pairs.html
docs_area:
---

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/filter-tabs/deploy-crdb-aws.md %}

This page shows you how to manually deploy a secure multi-node CockroachDB cluster on Amazon's AWS EC2 platform, using AWS's managed load balancing service to distribute client traffic.

After setting up the AWS network, clock synchronization, and load balancing, it should take approximately 20 minutes to complete the deployment. This is based on initializing a three-node CockroachDB cluster in a single AWS region and running our sample workload.

If you are only testing CockroachDB, or you are not concerned with protecting network communication with TLS encryption, you can use an insecure cluster instead. Select **Insecure** above for instructions.

{% include cockroachcloud/use-cockroachcloud-instead.md %}

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
If you need a license to use [{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} features](enterprise-licensing.html), obtain a private offer link on the [AWS Marketplace](https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/prodview-ph5bx6fhm4nlq) or see [CockroachDB Pricing](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/pricing/) to learn about custom pricing.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Before you begin

### Requirements

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/prod-deployment/secure-requirements.md %}

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
CockroachDB is supported in all [AWS regions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/using-regions-availability-zones.html).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

### Recommendations

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/prod-deployment/secure-recommendations.md %}

- You should have familiarity with configuring the following AWS components:
  - [Amazon VPC](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/index.html)
  - [Subnets](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/VPC_Subnets.html)
  - [Internet gateways](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/VPC_Internet_Gateway.html)
  - [Route tables](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/VPC_Route_Tables.html)
  - [AWS VPN](https://aws.amazon.com/vpn/)
  - [Virtual private gateways](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpn/latest/s2svpn/VPC_VPN.html)
  - [Elastic Load Balancing](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/load-balancer-types.html)

- All Amazon EC2 instances running CockroachDB should be members of the same [security group](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/using-network-security.html). For an example, see [AWS architecture](#aws-architecture).

- Follow the [AWS IAM best practices](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/best-practices.html) to harden the AWS environment. Use [roles](security-reference/authorization.html#roles) to grant access to the deployment, following a [policy of least privilege](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/best-practices.html#grant-least-privilege).

- The [AWS root user](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_root-user.html) is _not_ necessary.

- Review the [AWS Config service limits](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/config/latest/developerguide/configlimits.html) and contact AWS support to request a quota increase, if necessary.

### AWS architecture

In this basic deployment, 3 CockroachDB nodes are each deployed on an Amazon EC2 instance across 3 availability zones. These are grouped within a single VPC and security group. Users are routed to the cluster via [Amazon Route 53](https://aws.amazon.com/route53/) (which is not used in this tutorial) and a load balancer.

<img src="{{ 'images/v22.1/aws-architecture.png' | relative_url }}" alt="Architecture diagram for a three-node CockroachDB cluster deployed on AWS" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

## Step 1. Create instances

Open the [Amazon EC2 console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/) and [launch an instance](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/launching-instance.html#launch-instance-console) for each node you plan to have in your cluster. If you plan to [run our sample workload](#step-9-run-a-sample-workload) against the cluster, create a separate instance for that workload.

- Run at least 3 nodes to ensure survivability.

- Your instances will rely on Amazon Time Sync Service for clock synchronization. When choosing an AMI, note that some machines are preconfigured to use Amazon Time Sync Service (e.g., Amazon Linux AMIs) and others are not.

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/prod-deployment/recommended-instances-aws.md %}

- Note the ID of the VPC you select. You will need to look up its IP range when setting inbound rules for your security group.

- Make sure all your instances are in the same security group.

	- If you are creating a new security group, add the [inbound rules](#step-2-configure-your-network) from the next step. Otherwise note the ID of the security group.

- When creating the instance, you will be prompted to specify an EC2 key pair. For more information on key pairs, see the [AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-key-pairs.html). These are used to securely connect to your instances and should be encrypted (e.g., `ssh-keygen -p -f $keypairfile` in Linux).

For more details, see [Hardware Recommendations](recommended-production-settings.html#hardware) and [Cluster Topology](recommended-production-settings.html#topology).

## Step 2. Configure your network

[Add Custom TCP inbound rules](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/using-network-security.html#adding-security-group-rule) to your security group to allow TCP communication on two ports:

- `26257` for inter-node and client-node communication. This enables the nodes to work as a cluster, the load balancer to route traffic to the nodes, and applications to connect to the load balancer.
- `8080` for exposing the DB Console to the user, and for routing the load balancer to the health check endpoint.

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/prod-deployment/aws-inbound-rules.md %}

#### Load balancer-health check communication

 Field | Value
-------|-------------------
 Port Range | **8080**
 Source | The IP range of your VPC in CIDR notation (e.g., 10.12.0.0/16)

To get the IP range of a VPC, open the [Amazon VPC console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/vpc/) and find the VPC listed in the section called Your VPCs.

## Step 3. Synchronize clocks

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/prod-deployment/synchronize-clocks.md %}

## Step 4. Set up load balancing

Each CockroachDB node is an equally suitable SQL gateway to your cluster, but to ensure client performance and reliability, it's important to use load balancing:

- **Performance:** Load balancers spread client traffic across nodes. This prevents any one node from being overwhelmed by requests and improves overall cluster performance (queries per second).

- **Reliability:** Load balancers decouple client health from the health of a single CockroachDB node. In cases where a node fails, the load balancer redirects client traffic to available nodes.

AWS offers fully-managed load balancing to distribute traffic between instances.

1. [Add AWS load balancing](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/network/network-load-balancer-getting-started.html). Be sure to:
	- Select a **Network Load Balancer** and use the ports we specify below.
	- Select the VPC and *all* availability zones of your instances. This is important, as you cannot change the availability zones once the load balancer is created. The availability zone of an instance is determined by its subnet, found by inspecting the instance in the Amazon EC2 Console.
	- Set the load balancer port to **26257**.
    - Create a new target group that uses TCP port **26257**. Traffic from your load balancer is routed to this target group, which contains your instances.
    - Configure health checks to use HTTP port **8080** and path `/health?ready=1`. This [health endpoint](monitoring-and-alerting.html#health-ready-1) ensures that load balancers do not direct traffic to nodes that are live but not ready to receive requests.
    - Register your instances with the target group you created, specifying port **26257**. You can add and remove instances later.
2. To test load balancing and connect your application to the cluster, you will need the provisioned internal (private) **IP address** for the load balancer. To find this, open the Network Interfaces section of the Amazon EC2 console and look up the load balancer by its name.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}If you would prefer to use HAProxy instead of AWS's managed load balancing, see the <a href="deploy-cockroachdb-on-premises.html">On-Premises</a> tutorial for guidance.{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Step 5. Generate certificates

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/prod-deployment/secure-generate-certificates.md %}

## Step 6. Start nodes

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/prod-deployment/secure-start-nodes.md %}

## Step 7. Initialize the cluster

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/prod-deployment/secure-initialize-cluster.md %}

## Step 8. Test your cluster

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/prod-deployment/secure-test-cluster.md %}

## Step 9. Run a sample workload

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/prod-deployment/secure-test-load-balancing.md %}

## Step 10. Monitor the cluster

In the Target Groups section of the Amazon EC2 console, [check the health](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/network/target-group-health-checks.html) of your instances by inspecting your target group and opening the Targets tab.

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/prod-deployment/monitor-cluster.md %}

## Step 11. Scale the cluster

Before adding a new node, [create a new instance](#step-1-create-instances) as you did earlier. Then [generate and upload a certificate and key](#step-5-generate-certificates) for the new node.

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/prod-deployment/secure-scale-cluster.md %}

## Step 12. Use the database

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/prod-deployment/use-cluster.md %}

## See also

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/prod-deployment/prod-see-also.md %}

Commit message:

Update AWS recommended production guidelines to include AWS Placement Groups

v22.1/deploy-cockroachdb-on-aws.md, after:

---
title: Deploy CockroachDB on AWS EC2
summary: Learn how to deploy CockroachDB on Amazon's AWS EC2 platform.
toc: true
toc_not_nested: true
ssh-link: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-key-pairs.html
docs_area:
---

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/filter-tabs/deploy-crdb-aws.md %}

This page shows you how to manually deploy a secure multi-node CockroachDB cluster on Amazon's AWS EC2 platform, using AWS's managed load balancing service to distribute client traffic.

After setting up the AWS network, clock synchronization, and load balancing, it should take approximately 20 minutes to complete the deployment. This is based on initializing a three-node CockroachDB cluster in a single AWS region and running our sample workload.

If you are only testing CockroachDB, or you are not concerned with protecting network communication with TLS encryption, you can use an insecure cluster instead. Select **Insecure** above for instructions.

{% include cockroachcloud/use-cockroachcloud-instead.md %}

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
If you need a license to use [{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} features](enterprise-licensing.html), obtain a private offer link on the [AWS Marketplace](https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/prodview-ph5bx6fhm4nlq) or see [CockroachDB Pricing](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/pricing/) to learn about custom pricing.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Before you begin

### Requirements

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/prod-deployment/secure-requirements.md %}

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
CockroachDB is supported in all [AWS regions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/using-regions-availability-zones.html).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

### Recommendations

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/prod-deployment/secure-recommendations.md %}

- You should have familiarity with configuring the following AWS components:
  - [Amazon VPC](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/index.html)
  - [VPC Subnets](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/VPC_Subnets.html)
  - [VPC Internet gateways](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/VPC_Internet_Gateway.html)
  - [VPC Route tables](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/VPC_Route_Tables.html)
  - [EC2 Placement Groups](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/placement-groups.html)
  - [AWS VPN](https://aws.amazon.com/vpn/)
  - [VPC Virtual Private Gateways](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpn/latest/s2svpn/VPC_VPN.html)
  - [AWS Application Load
    Balancers](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/application/introduction.html)
    and [AWS Network Load
    Balancers](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/network/introduction.html)

- All Amazon EC2 instances running CockroachDB should be members of the same [Security Group](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/using-network-security.html). For an example, see [AWS Architecture](#aws-architecture).

- Follow the [AWS IAM best practices](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/best-practices.html) to harden the AWS environment. Use [IAM Roles](security-reference/authorization.html#roles) to grant access to the deployment, following a [policy of least privilege](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/best-practices.html#grant-least-privilege).

- The [AWS root user](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_root-user.html) is _not_ necessary, and [its use is discouraged](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/best-practices.html#lock-away-credentials).

- Review the [AWS Config Service Limits](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/config/latest/developerguide/configlimits.html) and contact AWS support to request a quota increase, if necessary.

### AWS Architecture

In this basic deployment, 3 CockroachDB nodes are each deployed on an Amazon EC2 instance across 3 availability zones (see the [AWS-specific Recommendations](recommended-production-settings.html#aws) for additional production recommendations). These are grouped within a single VPC and security group. Users are routed to the cluster via [Amazon Route 53](https://aws.amazon.com/route53/) (which is not used in this tutorial) and a load balancer.

<img src="{{ 'images/v22.1/aws-architecture.png' | relative_url }}" alt="Architecture diagram for a three-node CockroachDB cluster deployed on AWS" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

## Step 1. Create instances

Open the [Amazon EC2 Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/) and [launch an instance](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/launching-instance.html#launch-instance-console) for each node you plan to have in your cluster. If you plan to [run our sample workload](#step-9-run-a-sample-workload) against the cluster, create a separate instance for that workload.

- Run at least 3 nodes to ensure survivability.

- Your instances will rely on Amazon Time Sync Service for clock synchronization. When choosing an AMI, note that some machines are preconfigured to use Amazon Time Sync Service (e.g., Amazon Linux AMIs) and others are not.

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/prod-deployment/recommended-instances-aws.md %}

- Note the ID of the VPC you select. You will need to look up its IP range when setting inbound rules for your security group.

- Make sure all your instances are in the same security group.

	- If you are creating a new security group, add the [inbound rules](#step-2-configure-your-network) from the next step. Otherwise note the ID of the security group.

- When creating the instance, you will be prompted to specify an EC2 key pair. For more information on key pairs, see the [AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-key-pairs.html). These are used to securely connect to your instances and should be encrypted (e.g., `ssh-keygen -p -f $keypairfile` in Linux).

For more details, see [Hardware Recommendations](recommended-production-settings.html#hardware) and [Cluster Topology](recommended-production-settings.html#topology).

## Step 2. Configure your network

[Add Custom TCP inbound rules](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/using-network-security.html#adding-security-group-rule) to your security group to allow TCP communication on two ports:

- `26257` for inter-node and client-node communication. This enables the nodes to work as a cluster, the load balancer to route traffic to the nodes, and applications to connect to the load balancer.
- `8080` for exposing the DB Console to the user, and for routing the load balancer to the health check endpoint.

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/prod-deployment/aws-inbound-rules.md %}

#### Load balancer-health check communication

 Field | Value
-------|-------------------
 Port Range | **8080**
 Source | The IP range of your VPC in CIDR notation (e.g., 10.12.0.0/16)

To get the IP range of a VPC, open the [Amazon VPC console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/vpc/) and find the VPC listed in the section called Your VPCs.

## Step 3. Synchronize clocks

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/prod-deployment/synchronize-clocks.md %}

## Step 4. Set up load balancing

Each CockroachDB node is an equally suitable SQL gateway to your cluster, but to ensure client performance and reliability, it's important to use load balancing:

- **Performance:** Load balancers spread client traffic across nodes. This prevents any one node from being overwhelmed by requests and improves overall cluster performance (queries per second).

- **Reliability:** Load balancers decouple client health from the health of a single CockroachDB node. In cases where a node fails, the load balancer redirects client traffic to available nodes.

AWS offers fully-managed load balancing to distribute traffic between instances.

1. [Add AWS load balancing](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/network/network-load-balancer-getting-started.html). Be sure to:
	- Select a **Network Load Balancer** and use the ports we specify below.
	- Select the VPC and *all* availability zones of your instances. This is important, as you cannot change the availability zones once the load balancer is created. The availability zone of an instance is determined by its subnet, found by inspecting the instance in the Amazon EC2 Console.
	- Set the load balancer port to **26257**.
    - Create a new target group that uses TCP port **26257**. Traffic from your load balancer is routed to this target group, which contains your instances.
    - Configure health checks to use HTTP port **8080** and path `/health?ready=1`. This [health endpoint](monitoring-and-alerting.html#health-ready-1) ensures that load balancers do not direct traffic to nodes that are live but not ready to receive requests.
    - Register your instances with the target group you created, specifying port **26257**. You can add and remove instances later.
2. To test load balancing and connect your application to the cluster, you will need the provisioned internal (private) **IP address** for the load balancer. To find this, open the Network Interfaces section of the Amazon EC2 console and look up the load balancer by its name.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}If you would prefer to use HAProxy instead of AWS's managed load balancing, see the <a href="deploy-cockroachdb-on-premises.html">On-Premises</a> tutorial for guidance.{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Step 5. Generate certificates

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/prod-deployment/secure-generate-certificates.md %}

## Step 6. Start nodes

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/prod-deployment/secure-start-nodes.md %}

## Step 7. Initialize the cluster

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/prod-deployment/secure-initialize-cluster.md %}

## Step 8. Test your cluster

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/prod-deployment/secure-test-cluster.md %}

## Step 9. Run a sample workload

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/prod-deployment/secure-test-load-balancing.md %}

## Step 10. Monitor the cluster

In the Target Groups section of the Amazon EC2 console, [check the health](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/network/target-group-health-checks.html) of your instances by inspecting your target group and opening the Targets tab.

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/prod-deployment/monitor-cluster.md %}

## Step 11. Scale the cluster

Before adding a new node, [create a new instance](#step-1-create-instances) as you did earlier. Then [generate and upload a certificate and key](#step-5-generate-certificates) for the new node.

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/prod-deployment/secure-scale-cluster.md %}

## Step 12. Use the database

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/prod-deployment/use-cluster.md %}

## See also

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/prod-deployment/prod-see-also.md %}
