v22.1/multiregion-overview.md, before:

---
title: Multi-Region Capabilities Overview
summary: Learn how to use CockroachDB multi-region capabilities.
toc: true
keywords: gin, gin index, gin indexes, inverted index, inverted indexes, accelerated index, accelerated indexes
docs_area: deploy
---

This page provides an overview of CockroachDB multi-region capabilities.

## Overview

CockroachDB multi-region capabilities make it easier to run global applications. To use these capabilities effectively, you should understand the following concepts:

- [_Cluster region_](#cluster-regions) is a geographic region that you specify at node start time.
- [_Database region_](#database-regions) is a geographic region in which a database operates. You must choose a database region from the list of available cluster regions.
- [_Survival goal_](#survival-goals) dictates how many simultaneous failure(s) a database can survive.
- [_Table locality_](#table-locality) determines how CockroachDB optimizes access to a table's data.

<a name="default-settings"></a>

At a high level, the simplest process for running a multi-region cluster is:

1. Set region information for each node in the cluster at startup using [node startup locality options](cockroach-start.html#locality).
1. Add one or more regions to a database, making it a "multi-region" database. One of these regions must be the _primary region_.
1. (*Optional*) Change table localities (global, regional by table, regional by row). This step is optional because by default the tables in a database will be homed in the database's primary region (as set during Step 1).
1. (*Optional*) Change the database's survival goals (zone or region). This step is optional because by default multi-region databases will be configured to survive zone failures.

These steps describe the simplest case, where you accept all of the default settings. The latter two steps are optional, but table locality and survival goals have a significant impact on performance. Therefore Cockroach Labs recommends that you give these aspects some consideration [when you choose a multi-region configuration](choosing-a-multi-region-configuration.html).

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
{% include {{page.version.version}}/misc/multiregion-max-offset.md %}
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Cluster regions

You define a cluster region at the node level using the `region` key and the zone using the `zone` key in the [node startup locality options](cockroach-start.html#locality).

For example, the following command adds `us-east-1` to the list of cluster regions and `us-east-1b` to the list of zones:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
cockroach start --locality=region=us-east-1,zone=us-east-1b # ... other required flags go here
~~~

To show all of a cluster's regions, execute the following SQL statement:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
SHOW REGIONS FROM CLUSTER;
~~~

## Database regions

A _database region_ is a high-level abstraction for a geographic region. Each region is broken into multiple zones. These terms are meant to correspond directly to the region and zone terminology used by cloud providers.

The regions added during node startup become _database regions_ when you add them to a database. To add the first region, use the [`ALTER DATABASE ... PRIMARY REGION` statement](set-primary-region.html).

While the database has only one region assigned to it, it is considered a "multi-region database."  This means that all data in that database is stored within its assigned regions, and CockroachDB optimizes access to the database's data from the primary region. If the default _survival goals_ and _table localities_ meet your needs, there is nothing else you need to do once you have set a database's primary region.

To add another database region, use the [`ALTER DATABASE ... ADD REGION` statement](add-region.html).

To show all of a database's regions, execute the [`SHOW REGIONS FROM DATABASE` statement](show-regions.html).

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
If the default survival goals and table localities meet your needs, there is nothing else you need to do once you have set a database's primary region.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Super regions

{% include common/experimental-warning.md %}

{% include_cached new-in.html version="v22.1" %} Super regions allow you to define a set of [database regions](#database-regions) such that the following [schema objects](schema-design-overview.html#database-schema-objects) will have all of their replicas stored _only_ in regions that are members of the super region:

- [Regional tables](#regional-tables) whose home region is a member of the super region.
- Any row of a [regional by row table](#regional-by-row-tables) whose [home region](set-locality.html#crdb_region) is a member of the super region.

The primary use case for super regions is data domiciling. As mentioned above, data from [regional](#regional-tables) and [regional by row](#regional-by-row-tables) tables will be stored only in regions that are members of the super region. Further, if the super region contains 3 or more regions and if you use [`REGION` survival goals](#survive-region-failures), the data domiciled in the super region will remain available if you lose a region.

{% include {{page.version.version}}/sql/super-region-considerations.md %}

<a name="enable-super-regions"></a>

For more information about how to enable and use super regions, see:

- [`ADD SUPER REGION`](add-super-region.html)
- [`DROP SUPER REGION`](drop-super-region.html)
- [`ALTER SUPER REGION`](alter-super-region.html)
- [`SHOW SUPER REGIONS`](show-super-regions.html)

Note that super regions take a different approach to data domiciling than [`ALTER DATABASE ... PLACEMENT RESTRICTED`](placement-restricted.html). Specifically, super regions make it so that all [replicas](architecture/overview.html#architecture-replica) (both voting and [non-voting](architecture/replication-layer.html#non-voting-replicas)) are placed within the super region, whereas `PLACEMENT RESTRICTED` makes it so that there are no non-voting replicas.

For more information about data domiciling using `PLACEMENT RESTRICTED`, see [Data Domiciling with CockroachDB](data-domiciling.html).

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
{% include {{page.version.version}}/sql/super-regions-for-domiciling-with-region-survivability.md %}
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
Super regions rely on the underlying [replication zone system](configure-replication-zones.html), which was historically built for performance, not for domiciling. The replication system's top priority is to prevent the loss of data and it may override the zone configurations if necessary to ensure data durability. For more information, see [Configure Replication Zones](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v21.2/configure-replication-zones#types-of-constraints).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Survival goals

A _survival goal_ dictates how many simultaneous failure(s) a database can survive. All tables within the same database operate with the **same survival goal**. Each database can have its own survival goal setting.

The following survival goals are available:

- Zone failure
- Region failure

The zone failure survival goal is the default. You can configure a database to survive region failures at the cost of slower write performance (due to network hops) using the following statement:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
ALTER DATABASE <db> SURVIVE REGION FAILURE;
~~~

For more information about the survival goals supported by CockroachDB, see the following sections:

- [Survive zone failures](#survive-zone-failures)
- [Survive region failures](#survive-region-failures)

<a id="surviving-zone-failures"></a>

### Survive zone failures

With the zone level survival goal, the database will remain fully available for reads and writes, even if a zone becomes unavailable. However, the database may not remain fully available if multiple zones in the same region fail. This is the default setting for multi-region databases.

You can configure a database to survive zone failures using the [`ALTER DATABASE ... SURVIVE ZONE FAILURE` statement](survive-failure.html).

If your application has performance or availability needs that are different than what the default settings provide, you can explore the other customization options described on this page.

<a id="surviving-region-failures"></a>

### Survive region failures

The region level survival goal has the property that the database will remain fully available for reads and writes, even if an entire region becomes unavailable. This added survival comes at a cost: write latency will be increased by at least as much as the round-trip time to the nearest region. Read performance will be unaffected. In other words, you are adding network hops and making writes slower in exchange for robustness.

You can upgrade a database to survive region failures using the [`ALTER DATABASE ... SURVIVE REGION FAILURE` statement](survive-failure.html).

Setting this goal on a database in a cluster with 3 [cluster regions](#cluster-regions) will automatically increase the [replication factor](configure-replication-zones.html#num_replicas) of the [ranges](architecture/glossary.html#architecture-range) underlying the database from 3 (the default) to 5. This ensures that there will be 5 replicas of each range spread across the 3 regions (2+2+1=5). This is how CockroachDB is able to provide region level resiliency while maintaining good read performance in the leaseholder's region. For writes, CockroachDB will need to coordinate across 2 of the 3 regions, so you will pay additional write latency in exchange for the increased resiliency.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
To survive region failures, you must add at least 3 [database regions](#database-regions).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

<a id="table-locality"></a>

## Table localities

_Table locality_ determines how CockroachDB optimizes access to the table's data from that locality. Every table in a multi-region database has a "table locality setting". By default, all tables in a multi-region database are _regional_ tables -- that is, CockroachDB optimizes access to the table's data from a single region (by default, the database's primary region).

For information about the table localities CockroachDB supports, see the sections:

- [Regional tables](#regional-tables) provide low-latency reads and writes for an entire table from _a single region_.
- [Regional by row tables](#regional-by-row-tables) provide low-latency reads and writes for one or more rows of a table from _a single region_. Different rows in the table can be optimized for access from _different regions_.
- [Global tables](#global-tables) are optimized for low-latency reads from _all regions_.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
Table locality settings are used for optimizing latency under different read and write patterns. If you are optimizing for read and write access to all of your tables from a single region (the primary region), there is nothing else you need to do once you set your [database's primary region](#database-regions).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

### Regional tables

{% include {{page.version.version}}/sql/regional-table-description.md %}

### Regional by row tables

{% include {{page.version.version}}/sql/regional-by-row-table-description.md %}

### Global tables

{% include {{page.version.version}}/sql/global-table-description.md %}

## Additional features

The features listed in this section make working with multi-region clusters easier.

### Indexes on `REGIONAL BY ROW` tables

{% include {{page.version.version}}/sql/indexes-regional-by-row.md %}

This behavior also applies to [GIN indexes](inverted-indexes.html).

For an example that uses unique indexes but applies to all indexes on `REGIONAL BY ROW` tables, see [Add a unique index to a `REGIONAL BY ROW` table](add-constraint.html#add-a-unique-index-to-a-regional-by-row-table).

## Schema changes in multi-region clusters

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/performance/lease-preference-system-database.md %}

## Next steps

- [How to Choose a Multi-Region Configuration](choosing-a-multi-region-configuration.html)

## See also

- [When to Use `ZONE` vs. `REGION` Survival Goals](when-to-use-zone-vs-region-survival-goals.html)
- [When to Use `REGIONAL` vs. `GLOBAL` Tables](when-to-use-regional-vs-global-tables.html)
- [Topology Patterns](topology-patterns.html)
- [Disaster Recovery](disaster-recovery.html)
- [Develop and Deploy a Global Application](movr-flask-overview.html)
- [Low Latency Reads and Writes in a Multi-Region Cluster](demo-low-latency-multi-region-deployment.html)
- [Migrate to Multi-Region SQL](migrate-to-multiregion-sql.html)

Commit message:

DOC-2711: Implicitly partitioned tables can use HSIs (#14457)

v22.1/multiregion-overview.md, after:

---
title: Multi-Region Capabilities Overview
summary: Learn how to use CockroachDB multi-region capabilities.
toc: true
keywords: gin, gin index, gin indexes, inverted index, inverted indexes, accelerated index, accelerated indexes
docs_area: deploy
---

This page provides an overview of CockroachDB multi-region capabilities.

## Overview

CockroachDB multi-region capabilities make it easier to run global applications. To use these capabilities effectively, you should understand the following concepts:

- [_Cluster region_](#cluster-regions) is a geographic region that you specify at node start time.
- [_Database region_](#database-regions) is a geographic region in which a database operates. You must choose a database region from the list of available cluster regions.
- [_Survival goal_](#survival-goals) dictates how many simultaneous failure(s) a database can survive.
- [_Table locality_](#table-locality) determines how CockroachDB optimizes access to a table's data.

<a name="default-settings"></a>

At a high level, the simplest process for running a multi-region cluster is:

1. Set region information for each node in the cluster at startup using [node startup locality options](cockroach-start.html#locality).
1. Add one or more regions to a database, making it a "multi-region" database. One of these regions must be the _primary region_.
1. (*Optional*) Change table localities (global, regional by table, regional by row). This step is optional because by default the tables in a database will be homed in the database's primary region (as set during Step 1).
1. (*Optional*) Change the database's survival goals (zone or region). This step is optional because by default multi-region databases will be configured to survive zone failures.

These steps describe the simplest case, where you accept all of the default settings. The latter two steps are optional, but table locality and survival goals have a significant impact on performance. Therefore Cockroach Labs recommends that you give these aspects some consideration [when you choose a multi-region configuration](choosing-a-multi-region-configuration.html).

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
{% include {{page.version.version}}/misc/multiregion-max-offset.md %}
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Cluster regions

You define a cluster region at the node level using the `region` key and the zone using the `zone` key in the [node startup locality options](cockroach-start.html#locality).

For example, the following command adds `us-east-1` to the list of cluster regions and `us-east-1b` to the list of zones:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
cockroach start --locality=region=us-east-1,zone=us-east-1b # ... other required flags go here
~~~

To show all of a cluster's regions, execute the following SQL statement:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
SHOW REGIONS FROM CLUSTER;
~~~

## Database regions

A _database region_ is a high-level abstraction for a geographic region. Each region is broken into multiple zones. These terms are meant to correspond directly to the region and zone terminology used by cloud providers.

The regions added during node startup become _database regions_ when you add them to a database. To add the first region, use the [`ALTER DATABASE ... PRIMARY REGION` statement](set-primary-region.html).

While the database has only one region assigned to it, it is considered a "multi-region database."  This means that all data in that database is stored within its assigned regions, and CockroachDB optimizes access to the database's data from the primary region. If the default _survival goals_ and _table localities_ meet your needs, there is nothing else you need to do once you have set a database's primary region.

To add another database region, use the [`ALTER DATABASE ... ADD REGION` statement](add-region.html).

To show all of a database's regions, execute the [`SHOW REGIONS FROM DATABASE` statement](show-regions.html).

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
If the default survival goals and table localities meet your needs, there is nothing else you need to do once you have set a database's primary region.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Super regions

{% include common/experimental-warning.md %}

{% include_cached new-in.html version="v22.1" %} Super regions allow you to define a set of [database regions](#database-regions) such that the following [schema objects](schema-design-overview.html#database-schema-objects) will have all of their replicas stored _only_ in regions that are members of the super region:

- [Regional tables](#regional-tables) whose home region is a member of the super region.
- Any row of a [regional by row table](#regional-by-row-tables) whose [home region](set-locality.html#crdb_region) is a member of the super region.

The primary use case for super regions is data domiciling. As mentioned above, data from [regional](#regional-tables) and [regional by row](#regional-by-row-tables) tables will be stored only in regions that are members of the super region. Further, if the super region contains 3 or more regions and if you use [`REGION` survival goals](#survive-region-failures), the data domiciled in the super region will remain available if you lose a region.

{% include {{page.version.version}}/sql/super-region-considerations.md %}

<a name="enable-super-regions"></a>

For more information about how to enable and use super regions, see:

- [`ADD SUPER REGION`](add-super-region.html)
- [`DROP SUPER REGION`](drop-super-region.html)
- [`ALTER SUPER REGION`](alter-super-region.html)
- [`SHOW SUPER REGIONS`](show-super-regions.html)

Note that super regions take a different approach to data domiciling than [`ALTER DATABASE ... PLACEMENT RESTRICTED`](placement-restricted.html). Specifically, super regions make it so that all [replicas](architecture/overview.html#architecture-replica) (both voting and [non-voting](architecture/replication-layer.html#non-voting-replicas)) are placed within the super region, whereas `PLACEMENT RESTRICTED` makes it so that there are no non-voting replicas.

For more information about data domiciling using `PLACEMENT RESTRICTED`, see [Data Domiciling with CockroachDB](data-domiciling.html).

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
{% include {{page.version.version}}/sql/super-regions-for-domiciling-with-region-survivability.md %}
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
Super regions rely on the underlying [replication zone system](configure-replication-zones.html), which was historically built for performance, not for domiciling. The replication system's top priority is to prevent the loss of data and it may override the zone configurations if necessary to ensure data durability. For more information, see [Configure Replication Zones](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v21.2/configure-replication-zones#types-of-constraints).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Survival goals

A _survival goal_ dictates how many simultaneous failure(s) a database can survive. All tables within the same database operate with the **same survival goal**. Each database can have its own survival goal setting.

The following survival goals are available:

- Zone failure
- Region failure

The zone failure survival goal is the default. You can configure a database to survive region failures at the cost of slower write performance (due to network hops) using the following statement:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
ALTER DATABASE <db> SURVIVE REGION FAILURE;
~~~

For more information about the survival goals supported by CockroachDB, see the following sections:

- [Survive zone failures](#survive-zone-failures)
- [Survive region failures](#survive-region-failures)

<a id="surviving-zone-failures"></a>

### Survive zone failures

With the zone level survival goal, the database will remain fully available for reads and writes, even if a zone becomes unavailable. However, the database may not remain fully available if multiple zones in the same region fail. This is the default setting for multi-region databases.

You can configure a database to survive zone failures using the [`ALTER DATABASE ... SURVIVE ZONE FAILURE` statement](survive-failure.html).

If your application has performance or availability needs that are different than what the default settings provide, you can explore the other customization options described on this page.

<a id="surviving-region-failures"></a>

### Survive region failures

The region level survival goal has the property that the database will remain fully available for reads and writes, even if an entire region becomes unavailable. This added survival comes at a cost: write latency will be increased by at least as much as the round-trip time to the nearest region. Read performance will be unaffected. In other words, you are adding network hops and making writes slower in exchange for robustness.

You can upgrade a database to survive region failures using the [`ALTER DATABASE ... SURVIVE REGION FAILURE` statement](survive-failure.html).

Setting this goal on a database in a cluster with 3 [cluster regions](#cluster-regions) will automatically increase the [replication factor](configure-replication-zones.html#num_replicas) of the [ranges](architecture/glossary.html#architecture-range) underlying the database from 3 (the default) to 5. This ensures that there will be 5 replicas of each range spread across the 3 regions (2+2+1=5). This is how CockroachDB is able to provide region level resiliency while maintaining good read performance in the leaseholder's region. For writes, CockroachDB will need to coordinate across 2 of the 3 regions, so you will pay additional write latency in exchange for the increased resiliency.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
To survive region failures, you must add at least 3 [database regions](#database-regions).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

<a id="table-locality"></a>

## Table localities

_Table locality_ determines how CockroachDB optimizes access to the table's data from that locality. Every table in a multi-region database has a "table locality setting". By default, all tables in a multi-region database are _regional_ tables -- that is, CockroachDB optimizes access to the table's data from a single region (by default, the database's primary region).

For information about the table localities CockroachDB supports, see the sections:

- [Regional tables](#regional-tables) provide low-latency reads and writes for an entire table from _a single region_.
- [Regional by row tables](#regional-by-row-tables) provide low-latency reads and writes for one or more rows of a table from _a single region_. Different rows in the table can be optimized for access from _different regions_.
- [Global tables](#global-tables) are optimized for low-latency reads from _all regions_.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
Table locality settings are used for optimizing latency under different read and write patterns. If you are optimizing for read and write access to all of your tables from a single region (the primary region), there is nothing else you need to do once you set your [database's primary region](#database-regions).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

### Regional tables

{% include {{page.version.version}}/sql/regional-table-description.md %}

### Regional by row tables

{% include {{page.version.version}}/sql/regional-by-row-table-description.md %}

### Global tables

{% include {{page.version.version}}/sql/global-table-description.md %}

## Additional features

The features listed in this section make working with multi-region clusters easier.

### Indexes on `REGIONAL BY ROW` tables

{% include {{page.version.version}}/sql/indexes-regional-by-row.md %}

This behavior also applies to [GIN indexes](inverted-indexes.html).

For an example that uses unique indexes but applies to all indexes on `REGIONAL BY ROW` tables, see [Add a unique index to a `REGIONAL BY ROW` table](add-constraint.html#add-a-unique-index-to-a-regional-by-row-table).

Regional by row tables can take advantage of [hash-sharded indexes](hash-sharded-indexes.html) provided the `crdb_region` column is not part of the columns in the hash-sharded index.

## Schema changes in multi-region clusters

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/performance/lease-preference-system-database.md %}

## Next steps

- [How to Choose a Multi-Region Configuration](choosing-a-multi-region-configuration.html)

## See also

- [When to Use `ZONE` vs. `REGION` Survival Goals](when-to-use-zone-vs-region-survival-goals.html)
- [When to Use `REGIONAL` vs. `GLOBAL` Tables](when-to-use-regional-vs-global-tables.html)
- [Topology Patterns](topology-patterns.html)
- [Disaster Recovery](disaster-recovery.html)
- [Develop and Deploy a Global Application](movr-flask-overview.html)
- [Low Latency Reads and Writes in a Multi-Region Cluster](demo-low-latency-multi-region-deployment.html)
- [Migrate to Multi-Region SQL](migrate-to-multiregion-sql.html)
