v22.1/ui-replication-dashboard.md, before:

---
title: Replication Dashboard
summary: The Replication dashboard lets you monitor the replication metrics for your cluster.
toc: true
docs_area: reference.db_console
---

The **Replication** dashboard in the DB Console lets you monitor the replication metrics for your cluster.

To view this dashboard, [access the DB Console](ui-overview.html#db-console-access), click **Metrics** in the left-hand navigation, and select **Dashboard** > **Replication**.

## Review of CockroachDB terminology

- **Range**: CockroachDB stores all user data and almost all system data in a giant sorted map of key-value pairs. This keyspace is divided into "ranges", contiguous chunks of the keyspace, so that every key can always be found in a single range.
- **Range Replica:** CockroachDB replicates each range (3 times by default) and stores each replica on a different node.
- **Range Lease:** For each range, one of the replicas holds the "range lease". This replica, referred to as the "leaseholder", is the one that receives and coordinates all read and write requests for the range.
- **Under-replicated Ranges:** <a name="under-replicated-ranges"></a> When a cluster is first initialized, the few default starting ranges have a single replica. As more nodes become available, the cluster replicates these ranges to other nodes until the number of replicas for each range reaches the desired [replication factor](configure-replication-zones.html#num_replicas) (3 by default). If a range has fewer replicas than the replication factor, the range is said to be "under-replicated". [Non-voting replicas](architecture/replication-layer.html#non-voting-replicas), if configured, are not counted when calculating replication status.
- **Unavailable Ranges:** <a name="unavailable-ranges"></a> If a majority of a range's replicas are on nodes that are unavailable, then the entire range is unavailable and will be unable to process queries.

For more details, see [Scalable SQL Made Easy: How CockroachDB Automates Operations](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/blog/automated-rebalance-and-repair/).

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/ui/ui-metrics-navigation.md %}

The **Replication** dashboard displays the following time series graphs:

## Ranges

<img src="{{ 'images/v22.1/ui_ranges.png' | relative_url }}" alt="DB Console Ranges" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

The **Ranges** graph shows you various details about the status of ranges.

- In the node view, the graph shows details about ranges on the node.

- In the cluster view, the graph shows details about ranges across all nodes in the cluster.

On hovering over the graph, the values for the following metrics are displayed:

Metric | Description
--------|----
Ranges | The number of ranges.
Leaders | The number of ranges with leaders. If the number does not match the number of ranges for a long time, troubleshoot your cluster.
Lease Holders | The number of ranges that have leases.
Leaders w/o Leases | The number of Raft leaders without leases. If the number if non-zero for a long time, troubleshoot your cluster.
Unavailable | The number of unavailable ranges. If the number if non-zero for a long time, troubleshoot your cluster.
Under-replicated | The number of under-replicated ranges. Non-voting replicas are not included in this value.

## Logical Bytes per Store

<img src="{{ 'images/v22.1/ui_logical_bytes_per_store.png' | relative_url }}" alt="DB Console Logical Bytes per Store" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

Metric | Description
--------|--------
**Logical Bytes per Store** | Number of logical bytes stored in [key-value pairs](architecture/distribution-layer.html#table-data) on each node. This includes historical and deleted data.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
{% include {{ page.version.version }}/ui/logical-bytes.md %}
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Replicas Per Store

<img src="{{ 'images/v22.1/ui_replicas_per_store.png' | relative_url }}" alt="DB Console Replicas per Store" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

- In the node view, the graph shows the number of range replicas on the store.

- In the cluster view, the graph shows the number of range replicas on each store.

You can [Configure replication zones](configure-replication-zones.html) to set the number and location of replicas. You can monitor the configuration changes using the DB Console, as described in [Fault tolerance and recovery](demo-fault-tolerance-and-recovery.html).

## Replica Quiescence

<img src="{{ 'images/v22.1/ui_replica_quiescence.png' | relative_url }}" alt="DB Console Replica Quiescence" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

- In the node view, the graph shows the number of replicas on the node.

- In the cluster view, the graph shows the number of replicas across all nodes.

On hovering over the graph, the values for the following metrics are displayed:

Metric | Description
--------|----
Replicas | The number of replicas.
Quiescent | The number of replicas that haven't been accessed for a while.

## Snapshots

<img src="{{ 'images/v22.1/ui_replica_snapshots.png' | relative_url }}" alt="DB Console Replica Snapshots" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

Usually the nodes in a [Raft group](architecture/replication-layer.html#raft) stay synchronized by following along the log message by message.  However, if a node is far enough behind the log (e.g., if it was offline or is a new node getting up to speed), rather than send all the individual messages that changed the range, the cluster can send it a snapshot of the range and it can start following along from there.  Commonly this is done preemptively, when the cluster can predict that a node will need to catch up, but occasionally the Raft protocol itself will request the snapshot.

Metric | Description
-------|------------
Generated | The number of snapshots created per second.
Applied (Raft-initiated) | The number of snapshots applied to nodes per second that were initiated within Raft.
Applied (Learner) | The number of snapshots applied to nodes per second that were anticipated ahead of time (e.g., because a node was about to be added to a Raft group).  This metric replaces the `Applied (Preemptive)` metric in 19.2 and onwards.
Applied (Preemptive) | The number of snapshots applied to nodes per second that were anticipated ahead of time (e.g., because a node was about to be added to a Raft group). This metric was used in pre-v19.2 releases and will be removed in future releases.
Reserved | The number of slots reserved per second for incoming snapshots that will be sent to a node.

## Circuit Breaker Tripped Replicas

<img src="{{ 'images/v22.1/ui_replica_circuitbreaker_replicas.png' | relative_url }}" alt="DB Console Circuit Breaker Tripped Replicas" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

When individual ranges become temporarily unavailable, requests to those ranges are refused by a [per-replica circuit breaker](architecture/replication-layer.html#per-replica-circuit-breaker-overview) instead of hanging indefinitely. 

- In the node view, the graph shows the number of replicas for which the per-replica circuit breaker is currently tripped, for the selected node.

- In the cluster view, the graph shows the number of replicas for which the per-replica circuit breaker is currently tripped, for each node in the cluster.

On hovering over the graph, the value for the following metric is displayed:

Metric | Description
-------|------------
`<node>` | The number of replicas on that node for which the per-replica circuit breaker is currently tripped.

## Circuit Breaker Tripped Events

<img src="{{ 'images/v22.1/ui_replica_circuitbreaker_events.png' | relative_url }}" alt="DB Console Circuit Breaker Tripped Events" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

When individual ranges become temporarily unavailable, requests to those ranges are refused by a [per-replica circuit breaker](architecture/replication-layer.html#per-replica-circuit-breaker-overview) instead of hanging indefinitely. While a range's per-replica circuit breaker remains tripped, each incoming request to that range triggers a `ReplicaUnavailableError` event until the range becomes available again.

- In the node view, the graph shows the total number of `ReplicaUnavailableError` events logged since the `cockroach` process started, for the selected node.

- In the cluster view, the graph shows the total number of `ReplicaUnavailableError` events logged since the `cockroach` process started, for each node in the cluster.

Metric | Description
-------|------------
`<node>` | The number of `ReplicaUnavailableError` events on that node since the `cockroach` process started.

## Other graphs

The **Replication** dashboard shows other time series graphs that are important for CockroachDB developers:

- Leaseholders per Store
- Average Queries per Store
- Range Operations

For monitoring CockroachDB, it is sufficient to use the [**Ranges**](#ranges), [**Replicas per Store**](#replicas-per-store), and [**Replica Quiescence**](#replica-quiescence) graphs.

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/ui/ui-summary-events.md %}

## See also

- [Troubleshooting Overview](troubleshooting-overview.html)
- [Support Resources](support-resources.html)
- [Raw Status Endpoints](monitoring-and-alerting.html#raw-status-endpoints)

Commit message:

DOC-3016 add snapshot data graph (#14477)

v22.1/ui-replication-dashboard.md, after:

---
title: Replication Dashboard
summary: The Replication dashboard lets you monitor the replication metrics for your cluster.
toc: true
docs_area: reference.db_console
---

The **Replication** dashboard in the DB Console lets you monitor the replication metrics for your cluster.

To view this dashboard, [access the DB Console](ui-overview.html#db-console-access), click **Metrics** in the left-hand navigation, and select **Dashboard** > **Replication**.

## Review of CockroachDB terminology

- **Range**: CockroachDB stores all user data and almost all system data in a giant sorted map of key-value pairs. This keyspace is divided into "ranges", contiguous chunks of the keyspace, so that every key can always be found in a single range.
- **Range Replica:** CockroachDB replicates each range (3 times by default) and stores each replica on a different node.
- **Range Lease:** For each range, one of the replicas holds the "range lease". This replica, referred to as the "leaseholder", is the one that receives and coordinates all read and write requests for the range.
- **Under-replicated Ranges:** <a name="under-replicated-ranges"></a> When a cluster is first initialized, the few default starting ranges have a single replica. As more nodes become available, the cluster replicates these ranges to other nodes until the number of replicas for each range reaches the desired [replication factor](configure-replication-zones.html#num_replicas) (3 by default). If a range has fewer replicas than the replication factor, the range is said to be "under-replicated". [Non-voting replicas](architecture/replication-layer.html#non-voting-replicas), if configured, are not counted when calculating replication status.
- **Unavailable Ranges:** <a name="unavailable-ranges"></a> If a majority of a range's replicas are on nodes that are unavailable, then the entire range is unavailable and will be unable to process queries.

For more details, see [Scalable SQL Made Easy: How CockroachDB Automates Operations](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/blog/automated-rebalance-and-repair/).

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/ui/ui-metrics-navigation.md %}

The **Replication** dashboard displays the following time series graphs:

## Ranges

<img src="{{ 'images/v22.1/ui_ranges.png' | relative_url }}" alt="DB Console Ranges" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

The **Ranges** graph shows you various details about the status of ranges.

- In the node view, the graph shows details about ranges on the node.

- In the cluster view, the graph shows details about ranges across all nodes in the cluster.

On hovering over the graph, the values for the following metrics are displayed:

Metric | Description
--------|----
Ranges | The number of ranges.
Leaders | The number of ranges with leaders. If the number does not match the number of ranges for a long time, troubleshoot your cluster.
Lease Holders | The number of ranges that have leases.
Leaders w/o Leases | The number of Raft leaders without leases. If the number if non-zero for a long time, troubleshoot your cluster.
Unavailable | The number of unavailable ranges. If the number if non-zero for a long time, troubleshoot your cluster.
Under-replicated | The number of under-replicated ranges. Non-voting replicas are not included in this value.

## Logical Bytes per Store

<img src="{{ 'images/v22.1/ui_logical_bytes_per_store.png' | relative_url }}" alt="DB Console Logical Bytes per Store" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

Metric | Description
--------|--------
**Logical Bytes per Store** | Number of logical bytes stored in [key-value pairs](architecture/distribution-layer.html#table-data) on each node. This includes historical and deleted data.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
{% include {{ page.version.version }}/ui/logical-bytes.md %}
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Replicas Per Store

<img src="{{ 'images/v22.1/ui_replicas_per_store.png' | relative_url }}" alt="DB Console Replicas per Store" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

- In the node view, the graph shows the number of range replicas on the store.

- In the cluster view, the graph shows the number of range replicas on each store.

You can [Configure replication zones](configure-replication-zones.html) to set the number and location of replicas. You can monitor the configuration changes using the DB Console, as described in [Fault tolerance and recovery](demo-fault-tolerance-and-recovery.html).

## Replica Quiescence

<img src="{{ 'images/v22.1/ui_replica_quiescence.png' | relative_url }}" alt="DB Console Replica Quiescence" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

- In the node view, the graph shows the number of replicas on the node.

- In the cluster view, the graph shows the number of replicas across all nodes.

On hovering over the graph, the values for the following metrics are displayed:

Metric | Description
--------|----
Replicas | The number of replicas.
Quiescent | The number of replicas that haven't been accessed for a while.

## Snapshots

<img src="{{ 'images/v22.1/ui_replica_snapshots.png' | relative_url }}" alt="DB Console Replica Snapshots" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

Usually the nodes in a [Raft group](architecture/replication-layer.html#raft) stay synchronized by following along with the log message by message.  However, if a node is far enough behind the log (e.g., if it was offline or is a new node getting up to speed), rather than send all the individual messages that changed the range, the cluster can send it a snapshot of the range and it can start following along from there.  Commonly this is done preemptively, when the cluster can predict that a node will need to catch up, but occasionally the Raft protocol itself will request the snapshot.

Metric | Description
-------|------------
Generated | The number of snapshots created per second.
Applied (Raft-initiated) | The number of snapshots applied to nodes per second that were initiated within Raft.
Applied (Learner) | The number of snapshots applied to nodes per second that were anticipated ahead of time (e.g., because a node was about to be added to a Raft group).  This metric replaces the `Applied (Preemptive)` metric in 19.2 and onwards.
Applied (Preemptive) | The number of snapshots applied to nodes per second that were anticipated ahead of time (e.g., because a node was about to be added to a Raft group). This metric was used in pre-v19.2 releases and will be removed in future releases.
Reserved | The number of slots reserved per second for incoming snapshots that will be sent to a node.

## Snapshots Data Received

<img src="{{ 'images/v22.1/ui_replica_snapshots_data.png' | relative_url }}" alt="DB Console Replica Snapshots Data Received" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

The **Snapshots Data Received** graph shows the rate of data received in bytes by each node via [Raft snapshot transfers](architecture/replication-layer.html#snapshots).

On hovering over the graph, the value for the following metric is displayed:

Metric | Description
-------|------------
`{node}` | The rate of snapshot data received in bytes per node.

## Circuit Breaker Tripped Replicas

<img src="{{ 'images/v22.1/ui_replica_circuitbreaker_replicas.png' | relative_url }}" alt="DB Console Circuit Breaker Tripped Replicas" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

When individual ranges become temporarily unavailable, requests to those ranges are refused by a [per-replica circuit breaker](architecture/replication-layer.html#per-replica-circuit-breaker-overview) instead of hanging indefinitely. 

- In the node view, the graph shows the number of replicas for which the per-replica circuit breaker is currently tripped, for the selected node.

- In the cluster view, the graph shows the number of replicas for which the per-replica circuit breaker is currently tripped, for each node in the cluster.

On hovering over the graph, the value for the following metric is displayed:

Metric | Description
-------|------------
`{node}` | The number of replicas on that node for which the per-replica circuit breaker is currently tripped.

## Circuit Breaker Tripped Events

<img src="{{ 'images/v22.1/ui_replica_circuitbreaker_events.png' | relative_url }}" alt="DB Console Circuit Breaker Tripped Events" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

When individual ranges become temporarily unavailable, requests to those ranges are refused by a [per-replica circuit breaker](architecture/replication-layer.html#per-replica-circuit-breaker-overview) instead of hanging indefinitely. While a range's per-replica circuit breaker remains tripped, each incoming request to that range triggers a `ReplicaUnavailableError` event until the range becomes available again.

- In the node view, the graph shows the total number of `ReplicaUnavailableError` events logged since the `cockroach` process started, for the selected node.

- In the cluster view, the graph shows the total number of `ReplicaUnavailableError` events logged since the `cockroach` process started, for each node in the cluster.

Metric | Description
-------|------------
`{node}` | The number of `ReplicaUnavailableError` events on that node since the `cockroach` process started.

## Other graphs

The **Replication** dashboard shows other time series graphs that are important for CockroachDB developers:

- Leaseholders per Store
- Average Queries per Store
- Range Operations

For monitoring CockroachDB, it is sufficient to use the [**Ranges**](#ranges), [**Replicas per Store**](#replicas-per-store), and [**Replica Quiescence**](#replica-quiescence) graphs.

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/ui/ui-summary-events.md %}

## See also

- [Troubleshooting Overview](troubleshooting-overview.html)
- [Support Resources](support-resources.html)
- [Raw Status Endpoints](monitoring-and-alerting.html#raw-status-endpoints)
