### Request Units

{{ site.data.products.serverless }} cluster resource usage is measured by two metrics: storage and Request Units, or RUs. RUs represent the compute and I/O resources used by a query. All database operations cost a certain amount of RUs depending on the resources used. For example, a "small read" might cost 2 RUs, and a "large read" such as a full table scan with indexes could cost a large number of RUs. You can see how many request units your cluster has used on the [Cluster Overview](#view-cluster-overview) page.

### Cluster scaling

{{ site.data.products.serverless }} clusters scale based on your workload. Baseline performance for a Serverless cluster is 100 RUs per second, and any usage above that is called [burst performance](architecture.html#concepts). Clusters start with 10M RUs of free burst capacity each month and earn 100 RUs per second up to a maximum of 250M free RUs per month. Earned RUs can be used immediately or accumulated as burst capacity. If you use all of your burst capacity, your cluster will revert to baseline performance.

You can set your spend limit higher to maintain a high level of performance with larger workloads. If you have a spend limit, your cluster will not be throttled to baseline performance once you use all of your free earned RUs. Instead, it will continue to use burst performance as needed until you reach your spend limit. You will only be charged for the resources you use up to your spend limit. If you reach your spend limit, your cluster will revert to the baseline performance of 100 RUs per second. 

For example, you have an application that processes sensor data at the end of the week. Most of the week it handles only occasional read requests, and spends under the 100 RUs per second baseline. At the end of the week the sensors send in their data to the application, requiring a burst over the 100 RUs per second baseline. When the cluster requires more than 100 RUs per second to cover the burst, it first spends the earned RUs from the previous week. If the burst requires more RUs than were earned the previous week, the cluster will spend RUs to cover the burst, up to your maximum spend limit. If you reach your spend limit at any point during the month, the cluster will continue to earn RUs during lower load periods and spend earned RUs during bursts, but after using the earned RUs during bursts it will not scale up beyond the 100 RUs per second baseline.

All [Console Admins](console-access-management.html#console-admin) will receive email alerts when your cluster reaches 75% and 100% of its burst capacity or storage limit. If you set a spend limit, you will also receive alerts at 50%, 75%, and 100% of your spend limit. To see a graph of your monthly resource usage and recommended spend limit, navigate to the [Edit cluster](#edit-your-spend-limit) page.