## May 1, 2023

<h3> General changes </h3>

The following changes were made to {{ site.data.products.serverless }} for **new organizations** created on or after April 26, 2023. **Existing organizations will not be affected until August 1, 2023**.

- The price of [Request Units (RUs)](../cockroachcloud/learn-about-request-units.html) increased from $1 per 10M RU to $2 per 10M RUs.
- The price of [storage](../cockroachcloud/architecture.html#storage) decreased from $1 per 1 GiB storage to $0.50 per 1 GiB storage.
- Free resources are allocated on a per-organization basis instead of a per-cluster basis. All organizations will now receive 50M Request Units per month and 10 GiB of storage for free.
- All resources are available instantly at the beginning of each month (burst and baseline RUs are now deprecated).
- You can now [set separate RU and storage limits](../cockroachcloud/serverless-cluster-management.html#edit-your-resource-limits) for your clusters, or set a spend limit that will be divided between resources automatically.
- You can now [set unlimited resources](../cockroachcloud/serverless-cluster-management.html#edit-your-resource-limits) for a cluster so your workload is never restricted.
- Organizations on the free plan will have at most one free serverless cluster (instead of the previous limit of five free clusters). **Cockroach Labs will continue to maintain all existing free clusters with the new organization-level free resources**. 
- Organizations can now create 200 serverless clusters instead of the previous maximum of five total clusters.

For an in-depth explanation of {{ site.data.products.serverless }} pricing, see [Learn About Pricing](../cockroachcloud/learn-about-pricing.html). For any questions or concerns, please [contact us](https://cockroachlabs.com/support).

<h3> Console changes </h3>

- {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} users can now [use the Cloud Console for full-cluster restores](../cockroachcloud/use-managed-service-backups.html?filters=dedicated#restore-a-cluster).
- The [**Access Management** page](../cockroachcloud/managing-access.html) in the Cloud Console now shows only relevant content based on the [user's role assignments](../cockroachcloud/authorization.html#organization-user-roles).

<h3> Cloud API changes </h3>

- [Cloud API](../cockroachcloud/cloud-api.html) responses now contain a header called `Cc-Trace-Id` that can be provided to [Support](https://cockroachlabs.com/support) to help with diagnostics or troubleshooting.
- The `CreateCluster` and `UpdateCluster` methods now support setting individual monthly limits for a cluster's [Request Units](../cockroachcloud/architecture.html#request-unit-ru) and [storage](../cockroachcloud/architecture.html#storage) usage.
- If your organization is enrolled in the new fine-grained authorization model described under **Security Updates**, you can assign the [new roles](../cockroachcloud/authorization.html#organization-user-roles) to both users and service accounts using the [Cloud API](../cockroachcloud/cloud-api.html) or [Terraform provider](../cockroachcloud/provision-a-cluster-with-terraform.html) in addition to the {{ site.data.products.db }} Console. 

<h3> Security updates </h3>

- {{ site.data.products.db }} is transitioning to a new [authorization model](../cockroachcloud/authorization.html#overview-of-the-cockroachdb-cloud-two-level-authorization-model) that offers fine-grained access-control (FGAC), meaning that users can be given access to exactly the actions and resources required to perform their tasks. Changes include [cluster-level roles](../cockroachcloud/authorization.html#organization-user-roles) and consistent access management across users and service accounts. This feature is in [limited access](../{{site.versions["stable"]}}/cockroachdb-feature-availability.html), and you can enroll your organization by contacting your account team. For more information, see [Managing Access (Authorization) in CockroachDB Cloud](../cockroachcloud/managing-access.html).
  
- You can now use client certificates to authenticate to {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters. First, a [cluster administrator](../cockroachcloud/authorization.html#organization-user-roles) needs to upload a CA certificate for the cluster using the [Cloud API](../cockroachcloud/cloud-api.html) or [Terraform provider](../cockroachcloud/provision-a-cluster-with-terraform.html). After that, individual users can be assigned client certificates signed by the uploaded CA certificate, which they can then use to connect to the cluster. This feature is in [limited access](../{{site.versions["stable"]}}/cockroachdb-feature-availability.html), and you can enroll your organization by contacting your account team.

<h3> Bug fixes </h3>

- The [**Connect to your cluster**](../cockroachcloud/connect-to-your-cluster.html) dialog and [**Databases** page](../cockroachcloud/databases-page.html) in the Console now respond significantly faster for clusters with over 100 databases.
- Fixed a bug where table and database [restores](../cockroachcloud/use-managed-service-backups.html) were disabled for clusters running CockroachDB versions [v22.2.6](v22.2.html#v22-2-6) or below.
