## July 10, 2023

<h3> General changes </h3>

- Previously, a default setting in the Amazon CloudWatch exporter was leading to redundant cardinality in [metrics exported](../cockroachcloud/export-metrics.html) from {{ site.data.products.db }} clusters. This option is now disabled to reduce AWS costs.
  
<h3> Console changes </h3>

- The **Add database** button on the [**Databases** page](../cockroachcloud/databases-page.html) of the Console is temporarily disabled.
- {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} restore jobs now have the following more descriptive statuses: `Preparing`, `Running`, `Reverting`, `Finalizing`, `Succeeded`, and `Failed` statuses. Additionally, destination clusters of self-service restores now display a `Restoring` state during the restore.
- The [Databases page](../cockroachcloud/databases-page.html) now includes additional statistics for clusters running [v23.1.0](v23.1.html) and later.
- You can now set up an AWS CloudWatch integration and view its status directly from the [**Tools** page](../cockroachcloud/tools-page.html) of the {{ site.data.products.db }} Console.

<h3> Security updates </h3>

- {{ site.data.products.serverless }} users can now [configure an IP allowlist](../cockroachcloud/network-authorization.html#ip-allowlisting) with up to 50 IP addresses for their clusters.
- The following [roles](../cockroachcloud/authorization.html#organization-user-roles) are now available for users of the limited access [fine-grained access control authorization model](../cockroachcloud/network-authorization.html#ip-allowlisting): Cluster Operator, Billing Coordinator, and Org Administrator. To enroll your organization in the new authorization model, contact your Cockroach Labs account team.