v21.2/copy-from.md, before:

---
title: COPY FROM
summary: Copy data from a third-party client to CockroachDB.
toc: true
docs_area: reference.sql
---

The `COPY FROM` statement copies data from third-party clients to tables in your cluster.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
CockroachDB currently only supports `COPY FROM` statements issued from third-party clients, for compatibility with PostgreSQL drivers and ORMs. `COPY FROM` statements cannot be issued from the [`cockroach` SQL shell](cockroach-sql.html). To copy data from a file to your cluster, we recommend using an [`IMPORT`](import.html) statement instead.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Syntax

<div>
{% remote_include https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cockroachdb/generated-diagrams/{{ page.release_info.crdb_branch_name }}/grammar_svg/copy_from.html %}
</div>

### Parameters

Parameter | Description
-----------|-------------
`table_name` | The name of the table to which to copy data.
`opt_column_list` | The column name, or list of column names, to which to copy data.
`WITH copy_options` | Optionally specify one or more [copy options](#options).

### Options

Option | Description
-----------|-------------
`DELIMITER 'value'` |  The value that delimits the rows of input data, passed as a string.
`NULL 'value'` |  The string that represents a `NULL` value in the input data.
`BINARY` | Copy data from binary format. If `BINARY` is specified, no other format can be specified.<br>If no format is specified, CockroachDB copies in plaintext format.
`CSV` |  Copy data from CSV format. If `CSV` is specified, no other format can be specified.<br>If no format is specified, CockroachDB copies in plaintext format.

## Required privileges

Only members of the `admin` role can run `COPY` statements. By default, the `root` user belongs to the `admin` role.

## Known limitations

### `COPY FROM` statements are not supported in the CockroachDB SQL shell

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/known-limitations/copy-from-clients.md %}

### `COPY` syntax not supported by CockroachDB

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/known-limitations/copy-syntax.md %}

## Example

The following example copies data from the PostgreSQL [`psql` client](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/app-psql.html) into a demo CockroachDB cluster. To follow along, make sure that you have [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/download/) installed.

Run [`cockroach demo`](cockroach-demo.html) to start a temporary, in-memory cluster with the [`movr` database](movr.html) preloaded:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
$ cockroach demo
~~~

Take note of the `(sql)` connection string listed under `Connection parameters` in the welcome message of the demo cluster's SQL shell:

~~~
# Connection parameters:
...
#   (sql) postgres://demo:demo11762@127.0.0.1:26257?sslmode=require
~~~

Open a new terminal window, and connect to your demo cluster with `psql`, using the connection string provided for the demo cluster, with the `movr` database specified:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
$ psql postgres://demo:demo11762@127.0.0.1:26257?sslmode=require
~~~

In the `psql` shell, run the following command to start copying data from `psql` to the `users` table:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> movr=# COPY users FROM STDIN;
~~~

The following prompt should appear:

~~~
Enter data to be copied followed by a newline.
End with a backslash and a period on a line by itself, or an EOF signal.
~~~

Enter some tab-delimited data that you want copied to the `users` table:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~
>> 8a3d70a3-d70a-4000-8000-00000000001d seattle	Hannah	400 Broad St	0987654321
>> 9eb851eb-851e-4800-8000-00000000001e	new york	Carl	53 W 23rd St	5678901234
>> \.
~~~

~~~
COPY 2
~~~

In the demo cluster's shell, query the `users` table for the rows that you just inserted:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> SELECT * FROM users WHERE id IN ('8a3d70a3-d70a-4000-8000-00000000001d', '9eb851eb-851e-4800-8000-00000000001e');
~~~

~~~
                   id                  |   city   |  name  |   address    | credit_card
---------------------------------------+----------+--------+--------------+--------------
  8a3d70a3-d70a-4000-8000-00000000001d | seattle  | Hannah | 400 Broad St | 0987654321
  9eb851eb-851e-4800-8000-00000000001e | new york | Carl   | 53 W 23rd St | 5678901234
(2 rows)
~~~

## See also

- [`IMPORT`](import.html)
- [`IMPORT INTO`](import-into.html)
- [`EXPORT`](export.html)
- [Migrate from PostgreSQL](migrate-from-postgres.html)
- [Migration Overview](migration-overview.html)

Commit message:

Add more supported syntax to COPY docs (#15433)
Fixes:

- DOC-2987
- DOC-3052
- DOC-3763
- DOC-4518
- DOC-4760

Summary of changes:

- Update `COPY` docs across v21.2, v22.1, and v22.2. Update examples to
  show how to use `HEADER`, `ESCAPE` and friends.

v21.2/copy-from.md, after:

---
title: COPY FROM
summary: Copy data from a third-party client to CockroachDB.
toc: true
docs_area: reference.sql
---

The `COPY FROM` statement copies data from third-party clients to tables in your cluster.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
CockroachDB currently only supports `COPY FROM` statements issued from third-party clients, for compatibility with PostgreSQL drivers and ORMs. `COPY FROM` statements cannot be issued from the [`cockroach` SQL shell](cockroach-sql.html). To copy data from a file to your cluster, we recommend using an [`IMPORT`](import.html) statement instead.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Syntax

<div>
{% remote_include https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cockroachdb/generated-diagrams/{{ page.release_info.crdb_branch_name }}/grammar_svg/copy_from.html %}
</div>

### Parameters

Parameter | Description
-----------|-------------
`table_name` | The name of the table to which to copy data.
`opt_column_list` | The column name, or list of column names, to which to copy data.
`WITH copy_options` | Optionally specify one or more [copy options](#options).

### Options

Option | Description
-----------|-------------
`DELIMITER 'value'` |  The value that delimits the rows of input data, passed as a string.
`NULL 'value'` |  The string that represents a `NULL` value in the input data.
`BINARY` | Copy data from binary format. If `BINARY` is specified, no other format can be specified.<br>If no format is specified, CockroachDB copies in plaintext format.
`CSV` |  Copy data from CSV format. If `CSV` is specified, no other format can be specified.<br>If no format is specified, CockroachDB copies in plaintext format.
`ESCAPE` | Specify an escape character for quoting the fields in CSV data.

## Required privileges

Only members of the `admin` role can run `COPY` statements. By default, the `root` user belongs to the `admin` role.

## Known limitations

### `COPY FROM` statements are not supported in the CockroachDB SQL shell

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/known-limitations/copy-from-clients.md %}

### `COPY` syntax not supported by CockroachDB

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/known-limitations/copy-syntax.md %}

## Example

The following example copies data from the PostgreSQL [`psql` client](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/app-psql.html) into a demo CockroachDB cluster. To follow along, make sure that you have [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/download/) installed.

Run [`cockroach demo`](cockroach-demo.html) to start a temporary, in-memory cluster with the [`movr` database](movr.html) preloaded:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
$ cockroach demo
~~~

Take note of the `(sql)` connection string listed under `Connection parameters` in the welcome message of the demo cluster's SQL shell:

~~~
# Connection parameters:
...
#   (sql) postgres://demo:demo11762@127.0.0.1:26257?sslmode=require
~~~

Open a new terminal window, and connect to your demo cluster with `psql`, using the connection string provided for the demo cluster, with the `movr` database specified:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
$ psql postgres://demo:demo11762@127.0.0.1:26257?sslmode=require
~~~

In the `psql` shell, run the following command to start copying data from `psql` to the `users` table:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> movr=# COPY users FROM STDIN;
~~~

The following prompt should appear:

~~~
Enter data to be copied followed by a newline.
End with a backslash and a period on a line by itself, or an EOF signal.
~~~

Enter some tab-delimited data that you want copied to the `users` table:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~
>> 8a3d70a3-d70a-4000-8000-00000000001d seattle	Hannah	400 Broad St	0987654321
>> 9eb851eb-851e-4800-8000-00000000001e	new york	Carl	53 W 23rd St	5678901234
>> \.
~~~

~~~
COPY 2
~~~

In the demo cluster's shell, query the `users` table for the rows that you just inserted:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> SELECT * FROM users WHERE id IN ('8a3d70a3-d70a-4000-8000-00000000001d', '9eb851eb-851e-4800-8000-00000000001e');
~~~

~~~
                   id                  |   city   |  name  |   address    | credit_card
---------------------------------------+----------+--------+--------------+--------------
  8a3d70a3-d70a-4000-8000-00000000001d | seattle  | Hannah | 400 Broad St | 0987654321
  9eb851eb-851e-4800-8000-00000000001e | new york | Carl   | 53 W 23rd St | 5678901234
(2 rows)
~~~

## See also

- [`IMPORT`](import.html)
- [`IMPORT INTO`](import-into.html)
- [`EXPORT`](export.html)
- [Migrate from PostgreSQL](migrate-from-postgres.html)
- [Migration Overview](migration-overview.html)
