v21.2/create-user.md, before:

---
title: CREATE USER
summary: The CREATE USER statement creates SQL users, which let you control privileges on your databases and tables.
toc: true
docs_area: reference.sql
---

The `CREATE USER` [statement](sql-statements.html) creates SQL users, which let you control [privileges](security-reference/authorization.html#managing-privileges) on your databases and tables.

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/misc/schema-change-stmt-note.md %}

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
The keywords `ROLE` and `USER` can be used interchangeably in SQL statements for enhanced PostgreSQL compatibility.

`CREATE USER` is equivalent to the statement `CREATE ROLE`, with one exception: `CREATE ROLE` sets the [`NOLOGIN`](#parameters) option by default, preventing the new role from being used to log in to the database. You can use `CREATE ROLE` and specify the [`LOGIN`](#parameters) option to achieve the same result as `CREATE USER`.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Considerations

- Usernames:
    - Are case-insensitive
    - Must start with a letter, number, or underscore
    - Must contain only letters, numbers, periods, or underscores
    - Must be between 1 and 63 characters.
    - <span class="version-tag">New in v21.2</span>: Cannot be `none`.
    - <span class="version-tag">New in v21.2</span>: Cannot start with `pg_` or `crdb_internal`. Object names with these prefixes are reserved for [system catalogs](system-catalogs.html).
- After creating users, you must [grant them privileges to databases and tables](grant.html).
- All users belong to the `public` role, to which you can [grant](grant.html) and [revoke](revoke.html) privileges.
- On secure clusters, you must [create client certificates for users](cockroach-cert.html#create-the-certificate-and-key-pair-for-a-client) and users must [authenticate their access to the cluster](#user-authentication).

## Required privileges

 To create other users, the user must be a member of the `admin` role or have the [`CREATEROLE`](#create-a-user-that-can-create-other-users-and-manage-authentication-methods-for-the-new-users) parameter set.

## Synopsis

<section>{% include {{ page.version.version }}/sql/generated/diagrams/create_user.html %}</section>

## Parameters

<style>
table td:first-child {
    min-width: 225px;
}
</style>

 Parameter | Description
-----------|-------------
`name` | The name of the user you want to create.<br><br>Usernames are case-insensitive; must start with a letter, number, or underscore; must contain only letters, numbers, or underscores; and must be between 1 and 63 characters.
`WITH role_option` | Apply a [role option](#role-options) to the role.

## Role options

Role option | Description
------------|--------------
`CANCELQUERY`/`NOCANCELQUERY` | Allow or disallow the role to cancel [queries](cancel-query.html) and [sessions](cancel-session.html) of other roles. Without this role option, roles can only cancel their own queries and sessions. Even with this role option, non-admins cannot cancel admin queries or sessions. This option should usually be combined with `VIEWACTIVITY` so that the role can view other roles' query and session information. <br><br>By default, the role option is set to `NOCANCELQUERY` for all non-admin roles.
`CONTROLCHANGEFEED`/`NOCONTROLCHANGEFEED` | Allow or disallow the role to run [`CREATE CHANGEFEED`](create-changefeed.html) on tables they have `SELECT` privileges on. <br><br>By default, the role option is set to `NOCONTROLCHANGEFEED` for all non-admin roles.
`CONTROLJOB`/`NOCONTROLJOB` | Allow or disallow the role to [pause](pause-job.html), [resume](resume-job.html), and [cancel](cancel-job.html) jobs. Non-admin roles cannot control jobs created by admins. <br><br>By default, the role option is set to `NOCONTROLJOB` for all non-admin roles.
`CREATEDB`/`NOCREATEDB` | Allow or disallow the role to [create](create-database.html) or [rename](rename-database.html) a database. The role is assigned as the owner of the database. <br><br>By default, the role option is set to `NOCREATEDB` for all non-admin roles.
`CREATELOGIN`/`NOCREATELOGIN` | Allow or disallow the role to manage authentication using the `WITH PASSWORD`, `VALID UNTIL`, and `LOGIN/NOLOGIN` role options. <br><br>By default, the role option is set to `NOCREATELOGIN` for all non-admin roles.
`CREATEROLE`/`NOCREATEROLE` |  Allow or disallow the new role to create, [alter](alter-role.html), and [drop](drop-role.html) other non-admin roles. <br><br>By default, the role option is set to `NOCREATEROLE` for all non-admin users.
`LOGIN`/`NOLOGIN` | Allow or disallow a role to log in with one of the [client authentication methods](authentication.html#client-authentication). Setting the role option to `NOLOGIN` prevents the role from logging in using any authentication method.
`MODIFYCLUSTERSETTING`/`NOMODIFYCLUSTERSETTING` | Allow or disallow the role to modify the [cluster settings](cluster-settings.html) with the `sql.defaults` prefix. <br><br>By default, the role option is set to `NOMODIFYCLUSTERSETTING` for all non-admin roles.
`PASSWORD password`/`PASSWORD NULL` | The credential the role uses to [authenticate their access to a secure cluster](authentication.html#client-authentication). A password should be entered as a [string literal](sql-constants.html#string-literals). For compatibility with PostgreSQL, a password can also be entered as an identifier. <br><br>To prevent a role from using [password authentication](authentication.html#client-authentication) and to mandate [certificate-based client authentication](authentication.html#client-authentication), [set the password as `NULL`](create-role.html#prevent-a-role-from-using-password-authentication).
`SQLLOGIN`/`NOSQLLOGIN` | Allow or disallow a role to log in using the SQL CLI with one of the [client authentication methods](authentication.html#client-authentication). The role option to `NOSQLLOGIN` prevents the role from logging in using the SQL CLI with any authentication method while retaining the ability to log in to DB Console. It is possible to have both `NOSQLLOGIN` and `LOGIN` set for a role and `NOSQLLOGIN` takes precedence on restrictions. <br><br>Without any role options all login behavior is permitted.
`VALID UNTIL` |  The date and time (in the [`timestamp`](timestamp.html) format) after which the [password](#parameters) is not valid.
`VIEWACTIVITY`/`NOVIEWACTIVITY` | Allow or disallow the user to see other users' [queries](show-statements.html) and [sessions](show-sessions.html) using `SHOW STATEMENTS`, `SHOW SESSIONS`, and the [**Statements**](ui-statements-page.html) and [**Transactions**](ui-transactions-page.html) pages in the DB Console. `VIEWACTIVITY` also permits visibility of node hostnames and IP addresses in the DB Console. With `NOVIEWACTIVITY`, the `SHOW` commands show only the user's own data, and DB Console pages redact node hostnames and IP addresses.<br><br>By default, the role option is set to `NOVIEWACTIVITY` for all non-`admin` users.
`VIEWACTIVITYREDACTED`/`NOVIEWACTIVITYREDACTED` | Allow or disallow a role to see other roles' queries and sessions using `SHOW STATEMENTS`, `SHOW SESSIONS`, and the Statements and Transactions pages in the DB Console. With `VIEWACTIVITYREDACTED`, a user won't have access to the usage of statements diagnostics bundle, which can contain PII information, in the DB Console. It is possible to have both `VIEWACTIVITY` and `VIEWACTIVITYREDACTED`, and `VIEWACTIVITYREDACTED` takes precedence on restrictions. If the user has `VIEWACTIVITY` but doesn't have `VIEWACTIVITYREDACTED`, they will be able to see DB Console pages and have access to the statements diagnostics bundle. <br><br>By default, the role option is set to `NOVIEWACTIVITYREDACTED` for all non-admin roles.




## User authentication

Secure clusters require users to authenticate their access to databases and tables. CockroachDB offers three methods for this:

- [Client certificate and key authentication](authentication.html#client-authentication), which is available to all users. To ensure the highest level of security, we recommend only using client certificate and key authentication.

- [Password authentication](#create-a-user-with-a-password), which is available to users and roles who you've created passwords for. To create a user with a password, use the `WITH PASSWORD` clause of `CREATE USER`. To add a password to an existing user, use the [`ALTER USER`](alter-user.html) statement.

    Users can use passwords to authenticate without supplying client certificates and keys; however, we recommend using certificate-based authentication whenever possible.

    Password creation is supported only in secure clusters.

- [GSSAPI authentication](gssapi_authentication.html), which is available to [Enterprise users](enterprise-licensing.html).

## Examples

To run the following examples, [start a secure single-node cluster](cockroach-start-single-node.html) and use the built-in SQL shell:

~~~ shell
$ cockroach sql --certs-dir=certs
~~~

~~~ sql
> SHOW USERS;
~~~

~~~
username | options | member_of
---------+---------+------------
admin    |         | {}
root     |         | {admin}
(2 rows)
~~~

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
The following statements are run by the `root` user that is a member of the `admin` role and has `ALL` privileges.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

### Create a user

Usernames are case-insensitive; must start with a letter, number, or underscore; must contain only letters, numbers, periods, or underscores; and must be between 1 and 63 characters.

~~~ sql
root@:26257/defaultdb> CREATE USER no_options;
~~~

~~~ sql
root@:26257/defaultdb> SHOW USERS;
~~~

~~~
 username  | options | member_of
-------------+---------+------------
admin      |         | {}
no_options |         | {}
root       |         | {admin}
(3 rows)
~~~

After creating users, you must:

- [Grant them privileges to databases](grant.html).
- For secure clusters, you must also [create their client certificates](cockroach-cert.html#create-the-certificate-and-key-pair-for-a-client).

### Create a user with a password

~~~ sql
root@:26257/defaultdb> CREATE USER with_password WITH LOGIN PASSWORD '$tr0nGpassW0rD' VALID UNTIL '2021-10-10';
~~~

~~~ sql
root@:26257/defaultdb> SHOW USERS;
~~~

~~~
  username    |                options                | member_of
--------------+---------------------------------------+------------
admin         |                                       | {}
no_options    |                                       | {}
root          |                                       | {admin}
with_password | VALID UNTIL=2021-10-10 00:00:00+00:00 | {}
(4 rows)
~~~

### Prevent a user from using password authentication

The following statement prevents the user from using password authentication and mandates certificate-based client authentication:

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
root@:26257/defaultdb> CREATE USER no_password WITH PASSWORD NULL;
~~~

~~~ sql
root@:26257/defaultdb> SHOW USERS;
~~~

~~~
  username    |                options                | member_of
--------------+---------------------------------------+------------
admin         |                                       | {}
no_options    |                                       | {}
no_password   |                                       | {}
root          |                                       | {admin}
with_password | VALID UNTIL=2021-10-10 00:00:00+00:00 | {}
(5 rows)
~~~

### Create a user that can create other users and manage authentication methods for the new users

The following example allows the user to [create other users](create-user.html) and [manage authentication methods](authentication.html#client-authentication) for them:

~~~ sql
root@:26257/defaultdb> CREATE USER can_create_users WITH CREATEROLE CREATELOGIN;
~~~

~~~ sql
root@:26257/defaultdb> SHOW USERS;
~~~

~~~
    username     |                options                | member_of
-----------------+---------------------------------------+------------
admin            |                                       | {}
can_create_users | CREATELOGIN, CREATEROLE               | {}
no_options       |                                       | {}
no_password      |                                       | {}
root             |                                       | {admin}
with_password    | VALID UNTIL=2021-10-10 00:00:00+00:00 | {}
(6 rows)
~~~

### Create a user that can create and rename databases

The following example allows the user to [create](create-database.html) or [rename](rename-database.html) databases:

~~~ sql
root@:26257/defaultdb> CREATE USER can_create_db WITH CREATEDB;
~~~

~~~ sql
root@:26257/defaultdb> SHOW USERS;
~~~

~~~
      username        |                options                | member_of
----------------------+---------------------------------------+------------
admin                 |                                       | {}
can_create_db         | CREATEDB                              | {}
can_create_users      | CREATELOGIN, CREATEROLE               | {}
no_options            |                                       | {}
no_password           |                                       | {}
root                  |                                       | {admin}
with_password         | VALID UNTIL=2021-10-10 00:00:00+00:00 | {}
(7 rows)
~~~

### Create a user that can pause, resume, and cancel non-admin jobs

The following example allows the user to cancel [queries](cancel-query.html) and [sessions](cancel-session.html) for other non-admin roles:

The following example allows the user to [pause](pause-job.html), [resume](resume-job.html), and [cancel](cancel-job.html) jobs:

~~~ sql
root@:26257/defaultdb> CREATE USER can_control_job WITH CONTROLJOB;
~~~

~~~ sql
root@:26257/defaultdb> SHOW USERS;
~~~

~~~
      username        |                options                | member_of
----------------------+---------------------------------------+------------
admin                 |                                       | {}
can_control_job       | CONTROLJOB                            | {}
can_create_db         | CREATEDB                              | {}
can_create_users      | CREATELOGIN, CREATEROLE               | {}
no_options            |                                       | {}
no_password           |                                       | {}
root                  |                                       | {admin}
with_password         | VALID UNTIL=2021-10-10 00:00:00+00:00 | {}
(8 rows)
~~~

### Create a user that can see and cancel non-admin queries and sessions

The following example allows the user to cancel [queries](cancel-query.html) and [sessions](cancel-session.html) for other non-admin roles:

~~~ sql
root@:26257/defaultdb> CREATE USER can_manage_queries WITH CANCELQUERY VIEWACTIVITY;
~~~

~~~ sql
root@:26257/defaultdb> SHOW USERS;
~~~

~~~
      username        |                options                | member_of
----------------------+---------------------------------------+------------
admin                 |                                       | {}
can_control_job       | CONTROLJOB                            | {}
can_create_db         | CREATEDB                              | {}
can_create_users      | CREATELOGIN, CREATEROLE               | {}
can_manage_queries    | CANCELQUERY, VIEWACTIVITY             | {}
no_options            |                                       | {}
no_password           |                                       | {}
root                  |                                       | {admin}
with_password         | VALID UNTIL=2021-10-10 00:00:00+00:00 | {}
(9 rows)
~~~

### Create a user that can control changefeeds

The following example allows the user to run [`CREATE CHANGEFEED`](create-changefeed.html):

~~~ sql
root@:26257/defaultdb> CREATE USER can_control_changefeed WITH CONTROLCHANGEFEED;
~~~

~~~ sql
root@:26257/defaultdb> SHOW USERS;
~~~

~~~
       username        |                options                | member_of
-----------------------+---------------------------------------+------------
admin                  |                                       | {}
can_control_changefeed | CONTROLCHANGEFEED                     | {}
can_control_job        | CONTROLJOB                            | {}
can_create_db          | CREATEDB                              | {}
can_create_users       | CREATELOGIN, CREATEROLE               | {}
can_manage_queries     | CANCELQUERY, VIEWACTIVITY             | {}
no_options             |                                       | {}
no_password            |                                       | {}
root                   |                                       | {admin}
with_password          | VALID UNTIL=2021-10-10 00:00:00+00:00 | {}
(10 rows)
~~~

### Create a user that can modify cluster settings

The following example allows the user to modify [cluster settings](cluster-settings.html):

~~~ sql
root@:26257/defaultdb> CREATE USER can_modify_cluster_setting WITH MODIFYCLUSTERSETTING;
~~~

~~~ sql
root@:26257/defaultdb> SHOW USERS;
~~~

~~~
         username          |                options                | member_of
---------------------------+---------------------------------------+------------
admin                      |                                       | {}
can_control_changefeed     | CONTROLCHANGEFEED                     | {}
can_control_job            | CONTROLJOB                            | {}
can_create_db              | CREATEDB                              | {}
can_create_users           | CREATELOGIN, CREATEROLE               | {}
can_manage_queries         | CANCELQUERY, VIEWACTIVITY             | {}
can_modify_cluster_setting | MODIFYCLUSTERSETTING                  | {}
no_options                 |                                       | {}
no_password                |                                       | {}
root                       |                                       | {admin}
with_password              | VALID UNTIL=2021-10-10 00:00:00+00:00 | {}
(11 rows)
~~~

## See also

- [Authorization](authorization.html)
- [`ALTER USER`](alter-user.html)
- [`DROP USER`](drop-user.html)
- [`SHOW USERS`](show-users.html)
- [`GRANT`](grant.html)
- [`SHOW GRANTS`](show-grants.html)
- [Create Security Certificates](cockroach-cert.html)
- [SQL Statements](sql-statements.html)
- [Online Schema Changes](online-schema-changes.html)

Commit message:

DOC-3423: Standardize "New in vXX.Y" version callouts (#13962)
Fixes DOC-3423

v21.2/create-user.md, after:

---
title: CREATE USER
summary: The CREATE USER statement creates SQL users, which let you control privileges on your databases and tables.
toc: true
docs_area: reference.sql
---

The `CREATE USER` [statement](sql-statements.html) creates SQL users, which let you control [privileges](security-reference/authorization.html#managing-privileges) on your databases and tables.

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/misc/schema-change-stmt-note.md %}

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
The keywords `ROLE` and `USER` can be used interchangeably in SQL statements for enhanced PostgreSQL compatibility.

`CREATE USER` is equivalent to the statement `CREATE ROLE`, with one exception: `CREATE ROLE` sets the [`NOLOGIN`](#parameters) option by default, preventing the new role from being used to log in to the database. You can use `CREATE ROLE` and specify the [`LOGIN`](#parameters) option to achieve the same result as `CREATE USER`.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Considerations

- Usernames:
    - Are case-insensitive
    - Must start with a letter, number, or underscore
    - Must contain only letters, numbers, periods, or underscores
    - Must be between 1 and 63 characters.
    - {% include_cached new-in.html version="v21.2" %} Cannot be `none`.
    - {% include_cached new-in.html version="v21.2" %} Cannot start with `pg_` or `crdb_internal`. Object names with these prefixes are reserved for [system catalogs](system-catalogs.html).
- After creating users, you must [grant them privileges to databases and tables](grant.html).
- All users belong to the `public` role, to which you can [grant](grant.html) and [revoke](revoke.html) privileges.
- On secure clusters, you must [create client certificates for users](cockroach-cert.html#create-the-certificate-and-key-pair-for-a-client) and users must [authenticate their access to the cluster](#user-authentication).

## Required privileges

 To create other users, the user must be a member of the `admin` role or have the [`CREATEROLE`](#create-a-user-that-can-create-other-users-and-manage-authentication-methods-for-the-new-users) parameter set.

## Synopsis

<section>{% include {{ page.version.version }}/sql/generated/diagrams/create_user.html %}</section>

## Parameters

<style>
table td:first-child {
    min-width: 225px;
}
</style>

 Parameter | Description
-----------|-------------
`name` | The name of the user you want to create.<br><br>Usernames are case-insensitive; must start with a letter, number, or underscore; must contain only letters, numbers, or underscores; and must be between 1 and 63 characters.
`WITH role_option` | Apply a [role option](#role-options) to the role.

## Role options

Role option | Description
------------|--------------
`CANCELQUERY`/`NOCANCELQUERY` | Allow or disallow the role to cancel [queries](cancel-query.html) and [sessions](cancel-session.html) of other roles. Without this role option, roles can only cancel their own queries and sessions. Even with this role option, non-admins cannot cancel admin queries or sessions. This option should usually be combined with `VIEWACTIVITY` so that the role can view other roles' query and session information. <br><br>By default, the role option is set to `NOCANCELQUERY` for all non-admin roles.
`CONTROLCHANGEFEED`/`NOCONTROLCHANGEFEED` | Allow or disallow the role to run [`CREATE CHANGEFEED`](create-changefeed.html) on tables they have `SELECT` privileges on. <br><br>By default, the role option is set to `NOCONTROLCHANGEFEED` for all non-admin roles.
`CONTROLJOB`/`NOCONTROLJOB` | Allow or disallow the role to [pause](pause-job.html), [resume](resume-job.html), and [cancel](cancel-job.html) jobs. Non-admin roles cannot control jobs created by admins. <br><br>By default, the role option is set to `NOCONTROLJOB` for all non-admin roles.
`CREATEDB`/`NOCREATEDB` | Allow or disallow the role to [create](create-database.html) or [rename](rename-database.html) a database. The role is assigned as the owner of the database. <br><br>By default, the role option is set to `NOCREATEDB` for all non-admin roles.
`CREATELOGIN`/`NOCREATELOGIN` | Allow or disallow the role to manage authentication using the `WITH PASSWORD`, `VALID UNTIL`, and `LOGIN/NOLOGIN` role options. <br><br>By default, the role option is set to `NOCREATELOGIN` for all non-admin roles.
`CREATEROLE`/`NOCREATEROLE` |  Allow or disallow the new role to create, [alter](alter-role.html), and [drop](drop-role.html) other non-admin roles. <br><br>By default, the role option is set to `NOCREATEROLE` for all non-admin users.
`LOGIN`/`NOLOGIN` | Allow or disallow a role to log in with one of the [client authentication methods](authentication.html#client-authentication). Setting the role option to `NOLOGIN` prevents the role from logging in using any authentication method.
`MODIFYCLUSTERSETTING`/`NOMODIFYCLUSTERSETTING` | Allow or disallow the role to modify the [cluster settings](cluster-settings.html) with the `sql.defaults` prefix. <br><br>By default, the role option is set to `NOMODIFYCLUSTERSETTING` for all non-admin roles.
`PASSWORD password`/`PASSWORD NULL` | The credential the role uses to [authenticate their access to a secure cluster](authentication.html#client-authentication). A password should be entered as a [string literal](sql-constants.html#string-literals). For compatibility with PostgreSQL, a password can also be entered as an identifier. <br><br>To prevent a role from using [password authentication](authentication.html#client-authentication) and to mandate [certificate-based client authentication](authentication.html#client-authentication), [set the password as `NULL`](create-role.html#prevent-a-role-from-using-password-authentication).
`SQLLOGIN`/`NOSQLLOGIN` | Allow or disallow a role to log in using the SQL CLI with one of the [client authentication methods](authentication.html#client-authentication). The role option to `NOSQLLOGIN` prevents the role from logging in using the SQL CLI with any authentication method while retaining the ability to log in to DB Console. It is possible to have both `NOSQLLOGIN` and `LOGIN` set for a role and `NOSQLLOGIN` takes precedence on restrictions. <br><br>Without any role options all login behavior is permitted.
`VALID UNTIL` |  The date and time (in the [`timestamp`](timestamp.html) format) after which the [password](#parameters) is not valid.
`VIEWACTIVITY`/`NOVIEWACTIVITY` | Allow or disallow the user to see other users' [queries](show-statements.html) and [sessions](show-sessions.html) using `SHOW STATEMENTS`, `SHOW SESSIONS`, and the [**Statements**](ui-statements-page.html) and [**Transactions**](ui-transactions-page.html) pages in the DB Console. `VIEWACTIVITY` also permits visibility of node hostnames and IP addresses in the DB Console. With `NOVIEWACTIVITY`, the `SHOW` commands show only the user's own data, and DB Console pages redact node hostnames and IP addresses.<br><br>By default, the role option is set to `NOVIEWACTIVITY` for all non-`admin` users.
`VIEWACTIVITYREDACTED`/`NOVIEWACTIVITYREDACTED` | Allow or disallow a role to see other roles' queries and sessions using `SHOW STATEMENTS`, `SHOW SESSIONS`, and the Statements and Transactions pages in the DB Console. With `VIEWACTIVITYREDACTED`, a user won't have access to the usage of statements diagnostics bundle, which can contain PII information, in the DB Console. It is possible to have both `VIEWACTIVITY` and `VIEWACTIVITYREDACTED`, and `VIEWACTIVITYREDACTED` takes precedence on restrictions. If the user has `VIEWACTIVITY` but doesn't have `VIEWACTIVITYREDACTED`, they will be able to see DB Console pages and have access to the statements diagnostics bundle. <br><br>By default, the role option is set to `NOVIEWACTIVITYREDACTED` for all non-admin roles.




## User authentication

Secure clusters require users to authenticate their access to databases and tables. CockroachDB offers three methods for this:

- [Client certificate and key authentication](authentication.html#client-authentication), which is available to all users. To ensure the highest level of security, we recommend only using client certificate and key authentication.

- [Password authentication](#create-a-user-with-a-password), which is available to users and roles who you've created passwords for. To create a user with a password, use the `WITH PASSWORD` clause of `CREATE USER`. To add a password to an existing user, use the [`ALTER USER`](alter-user.html) statement.

    Users can use passwords to authenticate without supplying client certificates and keys; however, we recommend using certificate-based authentication whenever possible.

    Password creation is supported only in secure clusters.

- [GSSAPI authentication](gssapi_authentication.html), which is available to [Enterprise users](enterprise-licensing.html).

## Examples

To run the following examples, [start a secure single-node cluster](cockroach-start-single-node.html) and use the built-in SQL shell:

~~~ shell
$ cockroach sql --certs-dir=certs
~~~

~~~ sql
> SHOW USERS;
~~~

~~~
username | options | member_of
---------+---------+------------
admin    |         | {}
root     |         | {admin}
(2 rows)
~~~

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
The following statements are run by the `root` user that is a member of the `admin` role and has `ALL` privileges.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

### Create a user

Usernames are case-insensitive; must start with a letter, number, or underscore; must contain only letters, numbers, periods, or underscores; and must be between 1 and 63 characters.

~~~ sql
root@:26257/defaultdb> CREATE USER no_options;
~~~

~~~ sql
root@:26257/defaultdb> SHOW USERS;
~~~

~~~
 username  | options | member_of
-------------+---------+------------
admin      |         | {}
no_options |         | {}
root       |         | {admin}
(3 rows)
~~~

After creating users, you must:

- [Grant them privileges to databases](grant.html).
- For secure clusters, you must also [create their client certificates](cockroach-cert.html#create-the-certificate-and-key-pair-for-a-client).

### Create a user with a password

~~~ sql
root@:26257/defaultdb> CREATE USER with_password WITH LOGIN PASSWORD '$tr0nGpassW0rD' VALID UNTIL '2021-10-10';
~~~

~~~ sql
root@:26257/defaultdb> SHOW USERS;
~~~

~~~
  username    |                options                | member_of
--------------+---------------------------------------+------------
admin         |                                       | {}
no_options    |                                       | {}
root          |                                       | {admin}
with_password | VALID UNTIL=2021-10-10 00:00:00+00:00 | {}
(4 rows)
~~~

### Prevent a user from using password authentication

The following statement prevents the user from using password authentication and mandates certificate-based client authentication:

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
root@:26257/defaultdb> CREATE USER no_password WITH PASSWORD NULL;
~~~

~~~ sql
root@:26257/defaultdb> SHOW USERS;
~~~

~~~
  username    |                options                | member_of
--------------+---------------------------------------+------------
admin         |                                       | {}
no_options    |                                       | {}
no_password   |                                       | {}
root          |                                       | {admin}
with_password | VALID UNTIL=2021-10-10 00:00:00+00:00 | {}
(5 rows)
~~~

### Create a user that can create other users and manage authentication methods for the new users

The following example allows the user to [create other users](create-user.html) and [manage authentication methods](authentication.html#client-authentication) for them:

~~~ sql
root@:26257/defaultdb> CREATE USER can_create_users WITH CREATEROLE CREATELOGIN;
~~~

~~~ sql
root@:26257/defaultdb> SHOW USERS;
~~~

~~~
    username     |                options                | member_of
-----------------+---------------------------------------+------------
admin            |                                       | {}
can_create_users | CREATELOGIN, CREATEROLE               | {}
no_options       |                                       | {}
no_password      |                                       | {}
root             |                                       | {admin}
with_password    | VALID UNTIL=2021-10-10 00:00:00+00:00 | {}
(6 rows)
~~~

### Create a user that can create and rename databases

The following example allows the user to [create](create-database.html) or [rename](rename-database.html) databases:

~~~ sql
root@:26257/defaultdb> CREATE USER can_create_db WITH CREATEDB;
~~~

~~~ sql
root@:26257/defaultdb> SHOW USERS;
~~~

~~~
      username        |                options                | member_of
----------------------+---------------------------------------+------------
admin                 |                                       | {}
can_create_db         | CREATEDB                              | {}
can_create_users      | CREATELOGIN, CREATEROLE               | {}
no_options            |                                       | {}
no_password           |                                       | {}
root                  |                                       | {admin}
with_password         | VALID UNTIL=2021-10-10 00:00:00+00:00 | {}
(7 rows)
~~~

### Create a user that can pause, resume, and cancel non-admin jobs

The following example allows the user to cancel [queries](cancel-query.html) and [sessions](cancel-session.html) for other non-admin roles:

The following example allows the user to [pause](pause-job.html), [resume](resume-job.html), and [cancel](cancel-job.html) jobs:

~~~ sql
root@:26257/defaultdb> CREATE USER can_control_job WITH CONTROLJOB;
~~~

~~~ sql
root@:26257/defaultdb> SHOW USERS;
~~~

~~~
      username        |                options                | member_of
----------------------+---------------------------------------+------------
admin                 |                                       | {}
can_control_job       | CONTROLJOB                            | {}
can_create_db         | CREATEDB                              | {}
can_create_users      | CREATELOGIN, CREATEROLE               | {}
no_options            |                                       | {}
no_password           |                                       | {}
root                  |                                       | {admin}
with_password         | VALID UNTIL=2021-10-10 00:00:00+00:00 | {}
(8 rows)
~~~

### Create a user that can see and cancel non-admin queries and sessions

The following example allows the user to cancel [queries](cancel-query.html) and [sessions](cancel-session.html) for other non-admin roles:

~~~ sql
root@:26257/defaultdb> CREATE USER can_manage_queries WITH CANCELQUERY VIEWACTIVITY;
~~~

~~~ sql
root@:26257/defaultdb> SHOW USERS;
~~~

~~~
      username        |                options                | member_of
----------------------+---------------------------------------+------------
admin                 |                                       | {}
can_control_job       | CONTROLJOB                            | {}
can_create_db         | CREATEDB                              | {}
can_create_users      | CREATELOGIN, CREATEROLE               | {}
can_manage_queries    | CANCELQUERY, VIEWACTIVITY             | {}
no_options            |                                       | {}
no_password           |                                       | {}
root                  |                                       | {admin}
with_password         | VALID UNTIL=2021-10-10 00:00:00+00:00 | {}
(9 rows)
~~~

### Create a user that can control changefeeds

The following example allows the user to run [`CREATE CHANGEFEED`](create-changefeed.html):

~~~ sql
root@:26257/defaultdb> CREATE USER can_control_changefeed WITH CONTROLCHANGEFEED;
~~~

~~~ sql
root@:26257/defaultdb> SHOW USERS;
~~~

~~~
       username        |                options                | member_of
-----------------------+---------------------------------------+------------
admin                  |                                       | {}
can_control_changefeed | CONTROLCHANGEFEED                     | {}
can_control_job        | CONTROLJOB                            | {}
can_create_db          | CREATEDB                              | {}
can_create_users       | CREATELOGIN, CREATEROLE               | {}
can_manage_queries     | CANCELQUERY, VIEWACTIVITY             | {}
no_options             |                                       | {}
no_password            |                                       | {}
root                   |                                       | {admin}
with_password          | VALID UNTIL=2021-10-10 00:00:00+00:00 | {}
(10 rows)
~~~

### Create a user that can modify cluster settings

The following example allows the user to modify [cluster settings](cluster-settings.html):

~~~ sql
root@:26257/defaultdb> CREATE USER can_modify_cluster_setting WITH MODIFYCLUSTERSETTING;
~~~

~~~ sql
root@:26257/defaultdb> SHOW USERS;
~~~

~~~
         username          |                options                | member_of
---------------------------+---------------------------------------+------------
admin                      |                                       | {}
can_control_changefeed     | CONTROLCHANGEFEED                     | {}
can_control_job            | CONTROLJOB                            | {}
can_create_db              | CREATEDB                              | {}
can_create_users           | CREATELOGIN, CREATEROLE               | {}
can_manage_queries         | CANCELQUERY, VIEWACTIVITY             | {}
can_modify_cluster_setting | MODIFYCLUSTERSETTING                  | {}
no_options                 |                                       | {}
no_password                |                                       | {}
root                       |                                       | {admin}
with_password              | VALID UNTIL=2021-10-10 00:00:00+00:00 | {}
(11 rows)
~~~

## See also

- [Authorization](authorization.html)
- [`ALTER USER`](alter-user.html)
- [`DROP USER`](drop-user.html)
- [`SHOW USERS`](show-users.html)
- [`GRANT`](grant.html)
- [`SHOW GRANTS`](show-grants.html)
- [Create Security Certificates](cockroach-cert.html)
- [SQL Statements](sql-statements.html)
- [Online Schema Changes](online-schema-changes.html)
