- Physical cluster replication is supported only on CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.core }} in new v23.2 clusters. Physical Cluster Replication cannot be enabled on clusters that have been upgraded from a previous version of CockroachDB.
- Read queries are not supported on the standby cluster before [cutover]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cutover-replication.md %}).
- The primary and standby cluster **cannot have different [region topology]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/topology-patterns.md %})**. For example, replicating a multi-region primary cluster to a single-region standby cluster is not supported. Mismatching regions between a multi-region primary and standby cluster is also not supported.
- Cutting back to the primary cluster after a cutover is a manual process. Refer to [Cut back to the primary cluster]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cutover-replication.md %}#cut-back-to-the-primary-cluster). In addition, after cutover, to continue using physical cluster replication, you must configure it again.
- Before cutover to the standby, the standby cluster does not support running [backups]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/backup-and-restore-overview.md %}) or [changefeeds]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/change-data-capture-overview.md %}).
- After a cutover, there is no mechanism to stop applications from connecting to the original primary cluster. It is necessary to redirect application traffic manually, such as by using a network load balancer or adjusting DNS records.
- Large data imports, such as those produced by [`RESTORE`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/restore.md %}) or [`IMPORT`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/import.md %}), may dramatically increase [replication lag]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/physical-cluster-replication-technical-overview.md %}#cutover-and-promotion-process).
