## v25.1.0-rc.1

Release Date: February 10, 2025

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v25-1-0-rc-1-backward-incompatible-changes">Backward-incompatible changes</h3>

- The default value of the `autocommit_before_ddl` session variable is now `true`. This will cause any schema change statement that is sent during a transaction to make the current transaction commit before executing the schema change in a separate transaction.

    This change is being made because CockroachDB does not have full support for multiple schema changes in a transaction, as described [here]({% link v25.1/online-schema-changes.md %}#schema-changes-within-transactions).

    Users who do not desire the autocommit behavior can preserve the old behavior by changing the default value of `autocommit_before_ddl` with a command such as:

    ``` ALTER ROLE ALL SET autocommit_before_ddl = false; ``` 
  
   

<h3 id="v25-1-0-rc-1-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- Since v23.2, table statistics histograms have been collected for non-indexed JSON columns. Histograms are no longer collected for these columns. This reduces memory usage during table statistics collection, for both automatic and manual collection via `ANALYZE` and `CREATE STATISTICS`. The previous behavior can be re-enabled by setting the cluster setting `sql.stats.non_indexed_json_histograms.enabled` to `true`.
- Added the session setting `optimizer_prefer_bounded_cardinality` which instructs the optimizer to prefer query plans where every expression has a guaranteed upper-bound on the number of rows it will process. This may help the optimizer produce better query plans in some cases. This setting is disabled by default.
- Added the session setting `optimizer_min_row_count` which sets a lower bound on row-count estimates for relational expressions during query planning. A value of zero, which is the default, indicates no lower bound. Note that if this is set to a value greater than zero, a row count of zero can still be estimated for expressions with a cardinality of zero, e.g., for a contradictory filter. Setting this to a value higher than 0, such as 1, may yield better query plans in some cases, such as when statistics are frequently stale and inaccurate.
- Fixed a bug existing only in testing releases of v25.1 that could cause unexpected errors during planning for `VALUES` expressions containing function calls with multiple overloads.
- The default setting for `plan_cache_mode` has been reverted to `force_custom_plan`, after being changed to `auto` in a [prior testing release]({% link releases/v25.1.md %}#v25-1-0-alpha-1). You can disregard the [previous release note]({% link releases/v25.1.md %}#v25-1-0-alpha-1-performance-improvements).

<h3 id="v25-1-0-rc-1-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug that could cause `SHOW TABLES` and other introspection operations to encounter a `batch timestamp ... must be after replica GC threshold` error.
- Fixed a bug existing only in testing releases of v25.1 that could cause the creation of a PL/pgSQL routine with a CTE to fail with an error similar to: `unexpected root expression: with`.
- Fixed a rare bug in which a query might fail with error `could not find computed column expression for column ... in table` while dropping a virtual computed column from the table. This bug was introduced in v23.2.4.
- Configuring replication controls on a partition name of an index that is not unique across all indexes will now correctly impact only that partition.
- The Data Distribution page in Advanced Debug will no longer crash if there are `NULL` values for `raw_sql_config` in `crdb_internal.zones`.
