## v25.1.0-beta.1

Release Date: January 20, 2025

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v25-1-0-beta-1-general-changes">General changes</h3>

- CockroachDB binaries are no longer built with profile-guided optimization (PGO) enabled.

<h3 id="v25-1-0-beta-1-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- When you run `CREATE LOGICALLY REPLICATED TABLE`, you must specify one of the following options:
  - `UNIDIRECTIONAL`: Sets up a unidirectional stream with fast initial scan.
  - `BIDIRECTIONAL ON {destination uri}`: Sets up a bidirectional stream from the original destination to the original source.
- Logical data replication (LDR) and physical cluster replication (PCR) may now use the `crdb_route=gateway` query option to route the replication streams over a load balancer.
- Updated the column name `description` to `command` in the `SHOW LOGICAL REPLICATION JOBS` responses.

<h3 id="v25-1-0-beta-1-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- The `node decommission` CLI command now waits until the target node is fully drained before marking it as decommissioned. Previously, the command would initiate the drain process but not wait for its completion, leaving the target node in a state where it could not communicate with the cluster but would still accept client requests, causing them to hang or encounter unexpected errors.
- The cluster setting `changefeed.frontier_highwater_lag_checkpoint_threshold` has been renamed to `changefeed.span_checkpoint.lag_threshold`. The previous name is still available for backward compatibility.

<h3 id="v25-1-0-beta-1-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bounded memory leak that could occur when evaluating some memory-intensive queries using the vectorized engine. This leak had been present since v20.2.
- Fixed a bug where columns created with `GENERATED ... BY IDENTITY` with the `SERIAL` type could incorrectly fail internal validations.
