## v25.1.0-beta.2

Release Date: January 27, 2025

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v25-1-0-beta-2-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- `SHOW JOBS` is now based on a new mechanism for storing information about the progress and status of running jobs. [#139230][#139230]
- `SHOW TENANT WITH REPLICATION STATUS` now displays the `ingestion_job_id` column after the `name` column. [#139275][#139275]

<h3 id="v25-1-0-beta-2-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- Customers must pass URIs as [external connections]({% link v25.1/create-external-connection.md %}) when [setting up Logical Data Replication (LDR)]({% link v25.1/set-up-logical-data-replication.md %}). [#139506][#139506]

<h3 id="v25-1-0-beta-2-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- The DB Console Cluster Settings page and `/_admin/v1/settings` API now use the same authorization and redaction logic as `SHOW CLUSTER SETTINGS` and `crdb_internal.cluster_settings`:
  - Users need `ADMIN`, `MODIFYCLUSTERSETTINGS`, or `VIEWCLUSTERSETTINGS` privileges to view settings.
  - If you have [enabled redaction of sensitive settings]({% link v25.1/cluster-settings.md %}#setting-server-redact-sensitive-settings-enabled), only users with `ADMIN` or `MODIFYCLUSTERSETTINGS` permissions can view values of settings CockroachDB classifies as `sensitive`.
  - Users with `VIEWACTIVITY` or `VIEWACTIVITYREDACTED` roles can only access settings pertaining to the DB Console.

    This change provides consistent behavior across all methods of accessing cluster settings. [#139277][#139277]
- The overload dashboard on DB Console now shows only the v2 replication admission control metrics, where previously it displayed both v1 and v2 metrics. Additionally, the aggregate size of queued replication entries is now shown. [#139566][#139566]

<h3 id="v25-1-0-beta-2-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug where the error "batch timestamp T must be after replica GC threshold" could occur during a schema change backfill operation, and cause the schema change job to retry infinitely. Now this error is treated as permanent, and will cause the job to enter the failed state. [#139251][#139251]

<h3 id="v25-1-0-beta-2-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- Rpc.batch_stream_pool.enabled now defaults to false. This supersedes an earlier release note. The cluster setting is currently experimental and not listed publicly. [#139481][#139481]

<h3 id="v25-1-0-beta-2-miscellaneous">Miscellaneous</h3>

<h4 id="v25-1-0-beta-2-missing-category">Missing category</h4>

- DROP INDEX can now only be run when `sql_safe_updates` are set to false. [#139505][#139505]

<h3 id="v25-1-0-beta-2-doc-updates">Doc updates</h3>

{% comment %}Docs team: Please add these manually.{% endcomment %}



[#139230]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/139230
[#139251]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/139251
[#139275]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/139275
[#139277]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/139277
[#139481]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/139481
[#139505]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/139505
[#139506]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/139506
[#139566]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/139566
