## v25.1.7

Release Date: May 28, 2025

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v25-1-7-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- Schema insights that recommend replacing an index were previously a two-statement command consisting of a `CREATE INDEX` and a `DROP INDEX` statement. When these two DDL statements were run as a single batched command, it was possible for one statement to succeed and one to fail. This is because DDL statements do not have the same atomicity guarantees as other SQL statements in CockroachDB. Index-replacement insights are now a single `CREATE INDEX` statement followed by a comment with additional DDL statements to be run manually: an `ALTER INDEX ... NOT VISIBLE` statement, which makes the old index invisible to the optimizer, followed by a `DROP INDEX` statement that should only be run after making the old index invisible and verifying that workload performance is satisfactory.


<h3 id="v25-1-7-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- SQL queries run on the source cluster by logical data replication (LDR) and physical cluster replication (PCR) will now account to internal metrics like `sql.statements.active.internal` instead of metrics like `sql.statements.active` that are used to monitor application workload.


<h3 id="v25-1-7-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug where using values `changefeed.aggregator.flush_jitter` and `min_checkpoint_frequency` such that `changefeed.aggregator.flush_jitter * min_checkpoint_frequency < 1` would cause a panic. Jitter will now be disabled in this case.

- Fixed a bug in the DB Console where the **Drop unused index** tag appeared multiple times for an index on the **Indexes** tab of the table details page.

- Fixed a bug in the DB Console where tables with page size dropdowns failed to update when a new page size option was selected. Tables now update correctly.

- Fixed a bug that could potentially cause a changefeed to erroneously complete when one of its watched tables encounters a schema change.
- Fixed a bug where the **Schedules** page displayed only a subset of a cluster's schedules. The **Schedules** page now correctly displays all schedules.
- Fixed a bug where manually updating the `show` or `status` parameters in the URL (e.g., `http://127.0.0.1:8080/#/schedules?status=ACTIVE&show=50`) caused the **Schedules** page to fail to load.

- Fixed a bug in the **SQL Activity Statements** page where filtering by **Statement Type** returned no results. The filter now works as expected.

- Improve the performance of `SHOW CREATE TABLE` on multi-region databases with large numbers of objects.

- Fixed a bug that could cause queries that perform work in parallel to ignore the requested quality-of-service level. Affected operations include lookup joins, DistSQL execution, and foreign-key checks.

- Fixed a bug where running `DROP INDEX` on a hash-sharded index did not properly detect dependencies from functions and procedures on the shard column. This caused the `DROP INDEX` statement to fail with an internal validation error. Now the statement returns a correct error message, and using `DROP INDEX ... CASCADE` works as expected by dropping the dependent functions and procedures.

- Fixed a bug that could lead to schema changes hanging after a cluster recovered from availability issues.

- Previously, on a table with multiple column families, CockroachDB could encounter a `Non-nullable column "‹×›:‹×›" with no value` error in rare cases during table statistics collection. The bug was present since v19.2 and is now fixed.

- Fixed a bug that could cause a row-level TTL job to fail with the error "comparison of two different versions of enum" if an `ENUM` type referenced by the table experienced a schema change.

- Fixed a bug where the physical cluster replication (PCR) reader catalog job could hit validation errors when schema objects had dependencies between them (for example, when a sequence's default expression was being removed).

- Fixed a bug where orphaned leases were not properly cleaned up.

- Fixed an internal assertion failure that could occur during operations like `ALTER TYPE` or `ALTER DATABASE ... ADD REGION` when temporary tables were present.

- Fixed a bug that prevented `TRUNCATE` from succeeding if any indexes on the table had back-reference dependencies, such as from a view or function referencing the index.

- Fixed a bug that could lead to a node stall.

- Fixed a bug where an invalid comment in the `system.comment` table for a schema object could make it inacessible.

- Fixed a rare corruption bug that impacts import and materialized views.
