## v25.1.0-alpha.1

Release Date: December 19, 2024

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v25-1-0-alpha-1-backward-incompatible-changes">Backward-incompatible changes</h3>

- The old `BACKUP TO`, `RESTORE FROM <collectionURI>`, and `SHOW BACKUP IN <collectionURI>` syntaxes are now fully deprecated and no longer usable.

<h3 id="v25-1-0-alpha-1-security-updates">Security updates</h3>

- Added support for partial roles from LDAP synced group to be mapped to CockroachDB roles and ensure appropriate erroring for undesired behavior.

<h3 id="v25-1-0-alpha-1-general-changes">General changes</h3>

- To improve the granularity of changefeed pipeline metrics, the changefeed metrics `changefeed.admit_latency` and `changefeed.commit_latency` now have histogram buckets from `5ms` to `60m` (previously `500ms` to `5m`). The following changefeed metrics now have histogram buckets from `5ms` to `10m` (previously `500ms` to `5m`): 
    - `changefeed.parallel_io_queue_nanos`
    - `changefeed.parallel_io_result_queue_nanos` 
    - `changefeed.sink_batch_hist_nanos`
    - `changefeed.flush_hist_nanos`
    - `changefeed.kafka_throttling_hist_nanos` 
[#136265][#136265]
- Added support for multiple seed brokers in the new Kafka sink.
- Added the new metric `distsender.rangefeed.catchup_ranges_waiting_client_side` that counts how many rangefeeds are waiting on the client-side limiter to start performing catchup scans.
- Added `system.users` to the list of system tables that changefeeds protect with protected timestamps. This table is required for change data capture queries.
- Added the `AWS_USE_PATH_STYLE` parameter to S3 URI parsing.

<h3 id="v25-1-0-alpha-1-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- Two new builtin functions, `crdb_internal.{lease_holder, range_stats}_with_errors`, include errors encountered while fetching leaseholder and range stats. These new builtins are used by the `crdb_internal.ranges` table, which includes a new column, `errors`, that combines the errors from the builtins.
- The cluster setting `sql.stats.automatic_partial_collection.enabled` is now enabled by default, which enables automatic collection of partial table stats. Partial table stats (i.e., those created with `CREATE STATISTICS ... USING EXTREMES`) scan the lower and upper ends of indexes to collect statistics outside the range covered by the previous full statistics collection.
- When triggers fire one another cyclically, the new `recursion_depth_limit` session variable now limits the depth of the recursion. By default, the limit is `1000` nested trigger executions.
- The names of `BEFORE` triggers fired by a mutation now show up in the `EXPLAIN` output. The trigger-function invocations are visible in the output of verbose `EXPLAIN`.
- `AFTER` triggers will now show up in the output of `EXPLAIN`, as well as `EXPLAIN ANALYZE`.
- Added support for `SHOW TRIGGERS`, which displays the names of all triggers on a table, as well as whether each trigger is enabled. The user must have any privilege on the table, or be its owner.
- Added support for `SHOW CREATE TRIGGER`, which displays the `CREATE` statement for a trigger. The user must have any privilege on the table, or be its owner.
- Added an informational notice to the result of `CREATE TABLE ... AS` statements that describes that indexes and constraints are not copied to the new table.
- Altering a column’s type no longer requires enabling the `enable_experimental_alter_column_type_general` session variable. This change makes the feature generally available.
- Added support for `COLLATE` expressions on arrays of strings to match PostgreSQL more closely.
- Added the column `readable_high_water_timestamp` to the output of `SHOW CHANGEFEED JOBS`. This human-readable form will be easier to consume. `high_water_timestamp` still exists and is in epoch nanoseconds.
- The `sql_safe_updates` session variable must be disabled to perform `ALTER COLUMN TYPE` operations that require a column rewrite.
- Added the `CREATE LOGICALLY REPLICATED` syntax that will direct logical data replication jobs to create the destination table(s) using a copy of the source table(s).
- It is now possible to execute queries with correlated joins with sub-queries or common table expressions in both the `INNER` and `OUTER` context. Errors with the following message: `unimplemented: apply joins with subqueries in the "inner" and "outer" contexts are not supported` will no longer occur.
- It is now possible to include a common table expression within the body of a user-defined function or stored procedure.
- Updated the column name `targets` to `tables` in the `SHOW LOGICAL REPLICATION JOBS` responses.

<h3 id="v25-1-0-alpha-1-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- Retired the cluster setting `kv.rangefeed.scheduler.enabled`. The rangefeed scheduler is now unconditionally enabled.
- Added the cluster setting `ui.database_locality_metadata.enabled` that allows operators to disable loading extended database and table region information in the DB Console Database and Table pages. This information can cause significant CPU load on large clusters with many ranges. Versions of this page from v24.3 and later do not have this problem. If customers require this data, they can use the `SHOW RANGES FROM {DATABASE| TABLE}` query via SQL to compute on-demand.
- The metrics scrape HTTP endpoint at `/ _status/vars` will now truncate `HELP` text at the first sentence, reducing the metadata for metrics with large descriptions. Descriptions are still accessible in the documentation.
- The row-level TTL job will now periodically update the progress meter in the jobs introspection interfaces, including `SHOW JOBS` and the Jobs page in the DB console.
- The `kv.bulk_io_write.min_capacity_remaining_fraction` cluster setting can be be set between `0.04` and `0.3`.
- Added two new metrics, `sql.distsql.select.distributed_exec.count` and `sql.distsql.select.distributed_exec.count.internal`. These metrics count the number of `SELECT` statements that actually execute with full or partial distribution. These metrics differ from `sql.distsql.select.count` and `sql.distsql.select.count.internal` in that the latter count the number of `SELECT` statements that are **planned** with full or partial distribution, but might not necessarily execute with full or partial distribution, depending on the location of data.
- Added the new metric `sql.distsql.distributed_exec.count` that counts the number of invocations of the execution engine with full or partial distribution. (This is in contrast to `sql.distsql.queries.total`, which counts the total number of invocations of the execution engine.)
- Added some clarification that the following metrics count invocations of the execution engine and not SQL queries (which could each result in multiple invocations of the execution engine):  
    - `sql.distsql.queries.active` 
    - `sql.distsql.queries.total` 
    - `sql.distsql.distributed_exec.count`
- The default value for the cluster setting `trace.span_registry.enabled` has been changed from `true` to `false`.
- Removed the `sql.auth.resolve_membership_single_scan.enabled` cluster setting. This was added in case it was necessary to revert back to the previous behavior for looking up role memberships, but this cluster setting has not been needed in practice since this was added in v23.1.
- Telemetry delivery is now considered successful even in cases where CockroachDB experiences a network timeout. This will prevent throttling in cases outside an operator's control.
- When a schema change job is completed, rolls back, or encounters a failure, the time taken since the job began is now logged in a structured log in the `SQL_SCHEMA` log channel.

<h3 id="v25-1-0-alpha-1-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- As of v25.1 the legacy Database page, which was previously available through the Advanced Debug page, is no longer available.
- When activating statement diagnostics in the DB Console, users now have the option to produce a redacted bundle as output. This bundle will omit sensitive data.
- Fixed a list of UI bugs on the DB Console Overview and Node Overview pages.
- Removed the link for the legacy table page on the Plan Details page.
- Changed the table and index contents of the Hot Ranges page in DB console.

<h3 id="v25-1-0-alpha-1-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug that prevented the `CREATE` statement for a routine from being shown in a statement bundle. This happened when the routine was created on a schema other than `public`. The bug has existed since v23.1.
- Reduced the duration of partitions in the gossip network when a node crashes in order to eliminate false positives in the `ranges.unavailable` metric.
- Fixed a bug that caused incorrect evaluation of some binary expressions involving `CHAR(N)` values and untyped string literals with trailing whitespace characters. For example, the expression `'f'::CHAR = 'f '` now correctly evaluates to `true`.
- Fixed a race condition in Sarama when Kafka throttling is enabled.
- Fixed a metrics bug in rangefeed restarts introduced in v23.2.
- Fixed a bug that could result in incorrect metrics related to retryable rangefeed errors.
- Fixed a bug that could cause `DELETE` triggers not to fire on cascading `DELETE`, and which could cause `INSERT` triggers to match incorrectly in the same scenario.
- Non-`admin` users that run `DROP ROLE IF EXISTS` on a user that does not exist will no longer receive an error message.
- Fixed a bug where CockroachDB would encounter an internal error when evaluating `FETCH ABSOLUTE 0` statements. The bug had been present since v22.1.
- Fixed a bug that could cause incorrect query results when the optimizer planned a lookup join on an index containing a column of type `CHAR(N)`, `VARCHAR(N)`, `BIT(N)`, `VARBIT(N)`, or `DECIMAL(M, N)`, and the query held that column constant to a single value (e.g., with an equality filter).
- Fixed a bug that prevented restoring cluster backups taken in a multi-region cluster that had configured the `system` database with a region configuration into a non-multi-region cluster.
- Fixed an unhandled error that would occur if `DROP SCHEMA` was executed on the `public` schema of the `system` database, or on an internal schema like `pg_catalog` or `information_schema`.
- `ALTER DATABASE` operations no longer hang when the operation modifies the zone config if an invalid zone config already exists.
- CockroachDB now correctly evaluates `percentile_cont` and `percentile_disc` aggregates over `FLOAT4` values.
- The schema changer's backfill process now includes a retry mechanism that reduces the batch size when memory issues occur. This improves the likelihood of operation success without requiring manual adjustment of the `bulko.index_backfill.batch_size` cluster setting.
- `CREATE SCHEMA` now returns the correct error if a the schema name is missing.
- Fixed an issue where corrupted table statistics could cause the `cockroach` process to crash.
- Table statistics collection in CockroachDB could previously run into `no bytes in account to release` errors in some edge cases (when the SQL memory budget, configured via `--max-sql-memory` flag, was close to being exhausted). The bug has been present since v21.2 and is now fixed.
- `security.certificate.*` metrics will now be updated if a node loads new certificates while running.
- A table that is participating in logical data replication can no longer be dropped. Previously, this was allowed, which would cause all the replicated rows to end up in the dead-letter queue.
- `ALTER COLUMN SET NOT NULL` was not enforced consistently when the table was created in the same transaction.
- `CREATE` relation / type could leave dangling namespace entries if the schema was concurrently being dropped.
- The `idle_in_session_timeout` session variable now excludes the time spent waiting for schema changer jobs to complete, preventing unintended session termination during schema change operations.
- Fixed a bug that causes the optimizer to use stale table statistics after altering an `ENUM` type used in the table.
- CockroachDB now better respects the `statement_timeout` limit on queries involving the top K sort and merge join operations.
- Fixed a bug that would cause the `make_timestamp` and `make_timestamptz` builtin functions to incorrectly extract the `seconds` argument if the value was less than `1`.
- Fixed possible index corruption caused by triggers that could occur when the following conditions were satisfied: 
    1. A query calls a user-defined function or stored procedure, and also performs a mutation on a table. 
    2. The user-defined function or storage procedure contains a statement that either fires an `AFTER` trigger, or fires a `CASCADE` that itself fires a trigger. 
    3. The trigger modifies the same row as the outer statement. 
    4. Either the outer or inner mutation is something other than an `INSERT` without an `ON CONFLICT` clause.
- Fixed an issue where license enforcement was not consistently disabled for single-node clusters started with `cockroach start-single-node`, ensuring proper behavior on cluster restarts.
- Fixed a bug that caused an incorrect filesystem to be logged as part of the store information.

<h3 id="v25-1-0-alpha-1-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- The `/_status/nodes_ui` API no longer returns unnecessary metrics in its response. This decreases the payload size of the API and improves the load time of various DB Console pages and components.
- Performance for some PL/pgSQL loops is now significantly improved, by as much as 3–4 times. This is due to applying tail-call optimization in more cases to the recursive sub-routines that implement loops.
- Improved the internal caching logic for role membership information. This reduces the latency impact of commands such as `DROP ROLE`, `CREATE ROLE`, and `GRANT role TO user`, which cause the role membership cache to be invalidated.
- The session variable `plan_cache_mode` now defaults to `auto`, enabling generic query plans for some queries.
  - This change is reverted in v25.1.0-rc.1, so this note can be disregarded when running the latest testing release and v25.1 production releases, unless otherwise noted.
- GRPC streams are now pooled across unary intra-cluster RPCs, allowing for reuse of gRPC resources to reduce the cost of remote key-value layer access. This pooling can be disabled using the `rpc.batch_stream_pool.enabled` cluster setting.
  - This information was updated in the <a href="#v25-1-0-beta-2-performance-improvements">v25.1.0-beta.2 release notes</a>.

<h3 id="v25-1-0-alpha-1-multi-tenancy">Multi-tenancy</h3>

- The `nodes` endpoint should work for `shared` secondary tenants. Since nodes are common to all the tenants, this API endpoint behaves similarly to the system tenant's endpoint.
