## v21.1.11

Release Date: October 18, 2021

{% include releases/release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v21-1-11-enterprise-edition-changes">Enterprise edition changes</h3>

- Fixed a bug where [`CHANGEFEED`](../v21.1/create-changefeed.html)s would fail to correctly handle a [primary key](../v21.1/primary-key.html) change. [#69926][#69926]
- [`CHANGEFEED`](../v21.1/create-changefeed.html)s no longer fail when started on [`REGIONAL BY ROW`](../v21.1/set-locality.html#set-the-table-locality-to-regional-by-row) tables. Note that in `REGIONAL BY ROW` tables, the [`crdb_region`](../v21.1/set-locality.html#crdb_region) column becomes part of the primary [index](../v21.1/indexes.html). Thus, changing an existing table to `REGIONAL BY ROW` will trigger a [changefeed](../v21.1/create-changefeed.html) backfill with new messages emitted using the new composite [primary key](../v21.1/primary-key.html). [#70022][#70022]
- Fixed a bug that could have led to duplicate instances of a single [changefeed](../v21.1/create-changefeed.html) [job](../v21.1/show-jobs.html) running for prolonged periods of time. [#70926][#70926]

<h3 id="v21-1-11-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- Added `crdb_internal.(node|cluster)_distsql_flows` virtual  tables that expose the information about the flows of the [DistSQL](../v21.1/architecture/sql-layer.html#distsql) execution scheduled on remote nodes. These tables do not include information about the non-distributed queries nor about local flows (from the perspective of the gateway node of the query). [#66332][#66332]
- Added new metrics to track a [schema](../v21.1/online-schema-changes.html) [job](../v21.1/show-jobs.html) failure (`sql.schema_changer.errors.all`, `sql.schema_changer.errors.constraint_violation`, `sql.schema_changer.errors.uncategorized`), with errors inside the `crdb_internal.feature_usage` table. [#70621][#70621]
- Fixed a bug where [`LINESTRINGZ`](../v21.1/linestring.html), `LINESTRINGZM`, and `LINESTRINGM` could not be used as column types. [#70749][#70749]

<h3 id="v21-1-11-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- Added the [cluster settings](../v21.1/cluster-settings.html) `sql.defaults.transaction_rows_written_log`, `sql.defaults.transaction_rows_written_err`, `sql.defaults.transaction_rows_read_log`, and `sql.defaults.transaction_rows_read_err` (as well as the corresponding [session variables](../v21.1/set-vars.html#supported-variables)). These settings determine the "size" of the [transactions](../v21.1/transactions.html) in written and read rows that are logged to the `SQL_PERF` [logging channel](../v21.1/logging-overview.html). Note that the internal queries used by CockroachDB cannot error out, but can be logged instead to the `SQL_INTERNAL_PERF` [logging channel](../v21.1/logging-overview.html). The "written" limits apply to [`INSERT`](../v21.1/insert.html), `INSERT INTO SELECT FROM`, [`INSERT ON CONFLICT`](../v21.1/insert.html), [`UPSERT`](../v21.1/upsert.html), [`UPDATE`](../v21.1/update.html), and [`DELETE`](../v21.1/delete.html) whereas the "read" limits apply to [`SELECT` statements](../v21.1/selection-queries.html), in addition to all of the others listed. These limits will not apply to [`CREATE TABLE AS SELECT`](../v21.1/create-table.html), [`IMPORT`](../v21.1/import.html), [`TRUNCATE`](../v21.1/truncate.html), [`DROP TABLE`](../v21.1/drop-table.html), [`ALTER TABLE`](../v21.1/alter-table.html), [`BACKUP`](../v21.1/backup.html), [`RESTORE`](../v21.1/restore.html), or [`CREATE STATISTICS`](../v21.1/create-statistics.html) statements. Note that enabling the `transaction_rows_read_err` setting comes at the cost of disabling the usage of the auto commit optimization for the mutation statements in [implicit transactions](../v21.1/transactions.html#individual-statements). [#70175][#70175]
- Adjusted the meaning of the recently introduced [session variables](../v21.1/set-vars.html#supported-variables) `transaction_rows_written_err` and `transaction_rows_read_err` (as well as the corresponding `_log` variables) to indicate the largest number of rows that is still allowed. Prior to this change, reaching the limit would result in an error; now an error results only if the limit is exceeded. [#70175][#70175]
- Added the [session variable](../v21.1/set-vars.html#supported-variables) `large_full_scan_rows`, as well as the corresponding [cluster setting](../v21.1/cluster-settings.html) `sql.defaults.large_full_scan_rows`. This setting determines which tables are considered "large" for the purposes of enabling the `disallow_full_table_scans` feature to reject full table/index scans of such "large" tables. The default value for the new setting is `0`, meaning that the previous behavior of rejecting all full table/index scans is kept. Internally-issued queries aren't affected, and the new setting has no impact when the `disallow_full_table_scans` setting is not enabled. [#70294][#70294]
- CockroachDB now records a [log event](../v21.1/eventlog.html) and increments a counter when removing an expired session. [#68538][#68538]

<h3 id="v21-1-11-command-line-changes">Command-line changes</h3>

- Version details have been added to all JSON formatted [log entries](../v21.1/logging-overview.html). [#70451][#70451]

<h3 id="v21-1-11-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- Renamed references to the [UI console](../v21.1/ui-overview.html) from "Admin UI" to "DB Console". [#70870][#70870]

<h3 id="v21-1-11-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug where cluster revision history [backups](../v21.1/backup.html) may have included dropped descriptors in the "current" snapshot of descriptors on the cluster. [#69650][#69650]
- Fixed a regression in [statistics](../v21.1/cost-based-optimizer.html#table-statistics) estimation in the optimizer for very large tables. The bug, which has been present since [v20.2.14](v20.2.html#v20-2-14) and [v21.1.7](v21.1.html#v21-1-7), could cause the optimizer to severely underestimate the number of rows returned by an expression. [#69953][#69953]
- Fixed a bug that can cause prolonged unavailability due to [lease transfer](../v21.1/architecture/replication-layer.html#epoch-based-leases-table-data) of a replica that may be in need of a [Raft](../v21.1/architecture/replication-layer.html#raft) snapshot. [#69964][#69964]
- Fixed a bug where, after a temporary node outage, other nodes in the cluster could fail to connect to the restarted node due to their circuit breakers not resetting. This would manifest in the [logs](../v21.1/logging-overview.html) via messages of the form `unable to dial nXX: breaker open`, where `XX` is the ID of the restarted node. Note that such errors are expected for nodes that are truly unreachable, and may still occur around the time of the restart, but for no longer than a few seconds. [#70311][#70311]
- [`RESTORE`](../v21.1/restore.html) will now correctly ignore dropped databases that may have been included in cluster [backups](../v21.1/backup.html) with revision history. [#69791][#69791]
- Fixed a bug where if tracing was enabled (using the `sql.trace.txn.enable_threshold` [cluster setting](../v21.1/cluster-settings.html)), the [statement diagnostics](../v21.1/explain-analyze.html#explain-analyze-debug) collection (`EXPLAIN ANALYZE (DEBUG)`) would not work. [#70035][#70035]
- Fixed a bug in full cluster [restores](../v21.1/restore.html) where dropped descriptor revisions would cause the restore [job](../v21.1/show-jobs.html) to fail. [#69654][#69654]
- Fixed a bug where [schema changes](../v21.1/online-schema-changes.html) that included both a column addition and [primary key](../v21.1/primary-key.html) change in the same [transaction](../v21.1/transactions.html) resulted in a failed [changefeed](../v21.1/create-changefeed.html). [#70022][#70022]
- Fixed a bug which prevented proper copying of [partitions](../v21.1/partitioning.html) and [zone configurations](../v21.1/configure-replication-zones.html) when de-interleaving a table with [ALTER PRIMARY KEY](../v21.1/alter-primary-key.html) when the columns did not appear in exactly the same order in the parent and child tables. [#70695][#70695]
- Fixed a bug where the exit status of the [`cockroach` command](../v21.1/cockroach-commands.html) did not follow the previously-documented table of exit status codes when an error occurred during command startup. Only errors occurring after startup were reported using the correct code. This bug had existed since reference exit status codes were introduced. [#70675][#70675]
- DNS unavailability during range 1 leaseholder loss will no longer cause significant latency increases for queries and other operations. [#70134][#70134]
- Fixed an issue in the [Pebble](../v21.1/architecture/storage-layer.html#pebble) storage engine where a key could be dropped from an LSM snapshot if the key was deleted by a range tombstone after the snapshot was acquired. [#70967][#70967]
- Fixed an internal error with [joins](../v21.1/joins.html) that are both `LATERAL` and `NATURAL`/`USING`. [#70800][#70800]
- Fixed `Z` and `M` coordinate columns causing a panic for the [`geometry_columns`](../v21.1/spatial-glossary.html#geometry_columns) and [`geography_columns`](../v21.1/spatial-glossary.html#geography_columns) tables. [#70813][#70813]
- Fixed a bug that could cause a CockroachDB node to deadlock upon startup in extremely rare cases. If encountered, a stack trace generated by `SIGQUIT` would have shown the function `makeStartLine()` near the top. This bug had existed since [v21.1](v21.1.html#v21-1-0). [#71408][#71408]

<h3 id="v21-1-11-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- The conversion performance of [WKT](../v21.1/well-known-text.html) to a spatial type is slightly improved. [#70181][#70181]

<h3 id="v21-1-11-miscellaneous">Miscellaneous</h3>

- Added a new `as_json` option which renders [backup](../v21.1/backup.html) manifests as JSON values. [#70298][#70298]

<h3 id="v21-1-11-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 41 merged PRs by 24 authors.

[#66332]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/66332
[#68538]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/68538
[#69650]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/69650
[#69654]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/69654
[#69791]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/69791
[#69926]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/69926
[#69953]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/69953
[#69964]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/69964
[#70022]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70022
[#70035]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70035
[#70134]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70134
[#70175]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70175
[#70181]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70181
[#70294]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70294
[#70298]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70298
[#70311]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70311
[#70451]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70451
[#70621]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70621
[#70675]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70675
[#70695]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70695
[#70749]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70749
[#70800]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70800
[#70813]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70813
[#70870]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70870
[#70926]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70926
[#70967]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70967
[#71408]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/71408
