## v21.1.16

Release Date: March 7, 2022

{% include releases/release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v21-1-16-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug that caused the query optimizer to omit join filters in rare cases when reordering joins, which could result in incorrect query results. This bug was present since v20.2. [#76621][#76621]
- Fixed a bug where some rows within query results could be omitted if the query references a column within a composite key with a null value. Previously, CockroachDB could incorrectly omit a row from query results against a table with multiple column families when that row contains a NULL value when a composite type ([FLOAT](../v21.1/float.html), [DECIMAL](../v21.1/decimal.html), [COLLATED STRING](../v21.1/collate.html), or any arrays of such a type) is included in the [PRIMARY KEY](../v21.1/primary-key.html). For the bug to occur, a composite column from the PRIMARY KEY must be included in any column family other than the first one. [#76637][#76637]
- Fixed a race condition that, in rare circumstances, could cause a node to panic with `unexpected Stopped processor` during shutdown. [#76828][#76828]
- There is now a 1 hour timeout when sending Raft snapshots to avoid stalled snapshot transfers. Stalled snapshot transfers could prevent Raft log truncation, thus growing the Raft log very large. This timeout is configurable via the `COCKROACH_RAFT_SEND_SNAPSHOT_TIMEOUT` environment variable. [#76830][#76830]
- [`CASE` expressions](../v21.1/scalar-expressions.html#simple-case-expressions) with branches that result in types that cannot be cast to a common type now result in a user-facing error instead of an internal error. [#76618][#76618]
- A bug has been fixed that could corrupt [indexes](../v21.1/indexes.html) containing [virtual columns](../v21.1/computed-columns.html) or expressions. The bug only occurred when the index's table had a [foreign key reference](../v21.1/foreign-key.html) to another table with an [`ON DELETE CASCADE`](../v21.1/foreign-key.html#foreign-key-actions) action, and a row was deleted in the referenced table. This bug was present since virtual columns were added in v21.1.0. [#77057][#77057]

<h3 id="v21-1-16-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- Fixed a bug in the [histogram estimation code](../v21.1/cost-based-optimizer.html#control-histogram-collection) that could cause the optimizer to think a scan of a multi-column index would produce 0 rows, when in fact it would produce many rows. This could cause the optimizer to choose a suboptimal plan. This bug has now been fixed, making it less likely for the optimizer to choose a suboptimal plan when multiple multi-column indexes are available. [#76557][#76557]
- The accuracy of [histogram](../v21.1/cost-based-optimizer.html#control-histogram-collection) calculations for [`BYTES`](../v21.1/bytes.html) types has been improved. As a result, the optimizer should generate more efficient query plans in some cases. [#76797][#76797]

<h3 id="v21-1-16-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 10 merged PRs by 6 authors.

[#76557]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/76557
[#76618]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/76618
[#76621]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/76621
[#76637]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/76637
[#76797]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/76797
[#76828]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/76828
[#76830]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/76830
[#77057]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/77057
