 Option                                                          | Value                   | Description
-----------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------+------------------------------
`revision_history`<a name="with-revision-history"></a>           | [`BOOL`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/bool.md %}) / None                     | Create a backup with full [revision history]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/take-backups-with-revision-history-and-restore-from-a-point-in-time.md %}), which records every change made to the cluster within the garbage collection period leading up to and including the given timestamp.<br><br>You can specify a backup with revision history without any value e.g., `WITH revision_history`. Or, you can explicitly define `WITH revision_history = 'true' / 'false'`. The `revision_history` option defaults to `true` when used with [`BACKUP`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/backup.md %}) or `CREATE SCHEDULE FOR BACKUP`. A value is **required** when using `ALTER BACKUP SCHEDULE` to {% if page.name == "alter-backup-schedule.md" %} [apply different options to scheduled backups](#apply-different-options-to-scheduled-backups). {% else %} [alter a backup schedule](alter-backup-schedule.html). {% endif %}
`encryption_passphrase`<a name="with-encryption-passphrase"></a> | [`STRING`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/string.md %}) | The passphrase used to [encrypt the files]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/take-and-restore-encrypted-backups.md %}) (`BACKUP` manifest and data files) that the `BACKUP` statement generates. This same passphrase is needed to decrypt the file when it is used to [restore]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/take-and-restore-encrypted-backups.md %}) and to list the contents of the backup when using [`SHOW BACKUP`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/show-backup.md %}). There is no practical limit on the length of the passphrase.
`detached`<a name="detached"></a>                           | [`BOOL`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/bool.md %}) / None                   | **Note:** Backups running on a schedule have the `detached` option applied implicitly. Therefore, you cannot modify this option for scheduled backups. <br><br>When a backup runs in `detached` mode, it will execute asynchronously. The job ID will be returned after the backup [job creation]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/backup-architecture.md %}#job-creation-phase) completes. Note that with `detached` specified, further job information and the job completion status will not be returned. For more on the differences between the returned job data, see the [example]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/backup.md %}#run-a-backup-asynchronously). To check on the job status, use the [`SHOW JOBS`](show-jobs.html) statement.
`EXECUTION LOCALITY` | Key-value pairs | Restricts the execution of the backup to nodes that match the defined locality filter requirements. For example, `WITH EXECUTION LOCALITY = 'region=us-west-1a,cloud=aws'`. <br><br>Refer to [Take Locality-restricted backups]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/take-locality-restricted-backups.md %}) for usage and reference detail.
`kms`                                                            | [`STRING`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/string.md %}) |  The URI of the cryptographic key stored in a key management service (KMS), or a comma-separated list of key URIs, used to [take and restore encrypted backups]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/take-and-restore-encrypted-backups.md %}#examples). Refer to [URI Formats]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/take-and-restore-encrypted-backups.md %}#uri-formats). The key or keys are  used to encrypt the manifest and data files that the `BACKUP` statement generates and to decrypt them during a [restore]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/take-and-restore-encrypted-backups.md %}#examples) operation, and to list the contents of the backup when using [`SHOW BACKUP`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/show-backup.md %}). <br/><br/>AWS KMS, Google Cloud KMS, and Azure Key Vault are supported.  
`incremental_location`<a name="incr-location"></a> | [`STRING`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/string.md %}) | Create an incremental backup in a different location than the default incremental backup location. <br><br>`WITH incremental_location = 'explicit_incrementals_URI'`<br><br>See [Incremental backups with explicitly specified destinations]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/take-full-and-incremental-backups.md %}#incremental-backups-with-explicitly-specified-destinations) for usage. <br><br> **Warning:** The `incremental_location` parameter is deprecated as of v25.4 and will be removed in a future release. Until the parameter is removed, you can continue to work with existing backups that use a custom `incremental_location`.