_includes/v22.1/ui/statements-filter.md, before:

{% if page.cloud == true %}
  {% capture link_prefix %}../{{site.versions["stable"]}}/{% endcapture %}
  {% assign page_prefix = "" %}
{% else %}
  {% assign link_prefix = "" %}
  {% assign page_prefix = "ui-" %}
{% endif %}

### Time interval

To view [statement fingerprints](#sql-statement-fingerprints) within a specific time interval, click the selector and pick an interval. Use the arrow keys to cycle through previous and next time intervals.

It's possible to select an interval for which no statement statistics exist. CockroachDB persists statement statistics up to 1 million rows before the oldest row is deleted. The retention period of statistics is reduced the more active a workload is and the more distinct statement fingerprints there are.

### Filter

To filter the statements:

1. Click the **Filters** field.
      - To filter by [application]({{ link_prefix }}connection-parameters.html#additional-connection-parameters), select **App** and select one or more applications.

          - Queries from the SQL shell are displayed under the `$ cockroach` app.
          - If you haven't set `application_name` in a client connection string, it appears as `unset`.
      - To filter by one or more databases (**Database**), [SQL statement types]({{ link_prefix }}sqltype.html) (**Statement Type**), or nodes on which the statement ran (**Node**), click the field and select one or more checkboxes.
      - To display only statement fingerprints that take longer than a specified time to run, specify the time and units.
      - To display only statement fingerprints with queries that cause full table scans, click **Only show statements that contain queries with full table scans**.

1. Click **Apply**.

The following screenshot shows the statements that contain the string `rides` for the `movr` application:

<img src="{{ 'images/v22.1/movr-statements-rides.png' | relative_url }}" alt="Movr rides statements" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

Commit message:

Add info about Metrics - SQL Activity time picker integration.

_includes/v22.1/ui/statements-filter.md, after:

{% if page.cloud == true %}
  {% capture link_prefix %}../{{site.versions["stable"]}}/{% endcapture %}
  {% assign page_prefix = "" %}
{% else %}
  {% assign link_prefix = "" %}
  {% assign page_prefix = "ui-" %}
{% endif %}

### Time interval

To view [statement fingerprints](#sql-statement-fingerprints) within a specific time interval, click the selector and pick an interval. Use the arrow keys to cycle through previous and next time intervals. When you select a time interval, the same interval is selected in the [Metrics](ui-overview.html#metrics) page.

It's possible to select an interval for which no statement statistics exist. CockroachDB persists statement statistics up to 1 million rows before the oldest row is deleted. The retention period of statistics is reduced the more active a workload is and the more distinct statement fingerprints there are.

### Filter

To filter the statements:

1. Click the **Filters** field.
      - To filter by [application]({{ link_prefix }}connection-parameters.html#additional-connection-parameters), select **App** and select one or more applications.

          - Queries from the SQL shell are displayed under the `$ cockroach` app.
          - If you haven't set `application_name` in a client connection string, it appears as `unset`.
      - To filter by one or more databases (**Database**), [SQL statement types]({{ link_prefix }}sqltype.html) (**Statement Type**), or nodes on which the statement ran (**Node**), click the field and select one or more checkboxes.
      - To display only statement fingerprints that take longer than a specified time to run, specify the time and units.
      - To display only statement fingerprints with queries that cause full table scans, click **Only show statements that contain queries with full table scans**.

1. Click **Apply**.

The following screenshot shows the statements that contain the string `rides` for the `movr` application:

<img src="{{ 'images/v22.1/movr-statements-rides.png' | relative_url }}" alt="Movr rides statements" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />
