_includes/v22.1/ui/transactions-filter.md, before:

{% if page.cloud == true %}
  {% capture link_prefix %}../{{site.versions["stable"]}}/{% endcapture %}
  {% assign page_prefix = "" %}
{% else %}
  {% assign link_prefix = "" %}
  {% assign page_prefix = "ui-" %}
{% endif %}

### Time interval

To view [statement fingerprints]({{ page_prefix }}statements-page.html#sql-statement-fingerprints) within a specific time interval, click the selector and pick an interval. Use the arrow keys to cycle through previous and next time intervals.

It's possible to select an interval for which no transaction statistics exist. CockroachDB persists transaction statistics up to 1 million rows before the oldest row is deleted. The retention period of statistics is reduced the more active a workload is and the more distinct statement fingerprints there are.

### Filter

To filter the transactions:

1. Click the **Filters** field.
      - To filter by [application]({{ link_prefix }}connection-parameters.html#additional-connection-parameters), select **App** and select one or more applications.

          - Queries from the SQL shell are displayed under the `$ cockroach` app.
          - If you haven't set `application_name` in a client connection string, it appears as `unset`.
      - To filter by the nodes on which the transaction ran, click the **Node** field and select one or more checkboxes.
      - To display only statement fingerprints that take longer than a specified time to run, specify the time and units.

1. Click **Apply**.

<img src="{{ 'images/v22.1/movr-transactions-rides.png' | relative_url }}" alt="Movr rides transactions" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

Commit message:

Add info about Metrics - SQL Activity time picker integration.

_includes/v22.1/ui/transactions-filter.md, after:

{% if page.cloud == true %}
  {% capture link_prefix %}../{{site.versions["stable"]}}/{% endcapture %}
  {% assign page_prefix = "" %}
{% else %}
  {% assign link_prefix = "" %}
  {% assign page_prefix = "ui-" %}
{% endif %}

### Time interval

To view [statement fingerprints]({{ page_prefix }}statements-page.html#sql-statement-fingerprints) within a specific time interval, click the selector and pick an interval. Use the arrow keys to cycle through previous and next time intervals. When you select a time interval, the same interval is selected in the [Metrics](ui-overview.html#metrics) page.

It's possible to select an interval for which no transaction statistics exist. CockroachDB persists transaction statistics up to 1 million rows before the oldest row is deleted. The retention period of statistics is reduced the more active a workload is and the more distinct statement fingerprints there are.

### Filter

To filter the transactions:

1. Click the **Filters** field.
      - To filter by [application]({{ link_prefix }}connection-parameters.html#additional-connection-parameters), select **App** and select one or more applications.

          - Queries from the SQL shell are displayed under the `$ cockroach` app.
          - If you haven't set `application_name` in a client connection string, it appears as `unset`.
      - To filter by the nodes on which the transaction ran, click the **Node** field and select one or more checkboxes.
      - To display only statement fingerprints that take longer than a specified time to run, specify the time and units.

1. Click **Apply**.

<img src="{{ 'images/v22.1/movr-transactions-rides.png' | relative_url }}" alt="Movr rides transactions" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />
