## v25.3.3

Release Date: October 17, 2025

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v25-3-3-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- Added the cluster setting `kvadmission.use_range_tenant_id_for_non_admin.enabled`, which can be used to disable the behavior where admission control uses the range's tenant ID for non-admin requests. This behavior is disabled by default.

<h3 id="v25-3-3-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug where an `INSERT` statement could fail with a type checking error while adding a `BIT(n)` column.
- Fixed a bug where index creation could fail due to validation errors if the schema change was retried or paused/resumed during the backfill.
- Fixed a bug introduced in v25.1.0 that would cause a node panic if a `SIGINT` signal was sent during the execution of a `CHECK EXTERNAL CONNECTION` command.
- Fixed a bug where `ALTER POLICY` was incorrectly dropping dependency tracking for functions, sequences, or types in policy expressions.
- Fixed a bug introduced in v25.1 where CockroachDB nodes could crash when executing `DO` statements that referenced (possibly nonexistent) user-defined types in non-default configurations. The crash only occurred if additional logging was enabled (for example, with the `sql.log.all_statements.enabled` cluster setting).
- Fixed a runtime error that could be hit if a new secondary index had a name collision with a primary index.
- Fixed a bug where the `schema_locked` storage parameter was not being enforced on the `TRUNCATE` command, which could cause changefeed jobs to fail.
- Fixed a bug that caused panics when executing `COPY` into a table with hidden columns and expression indexes. The panic only occurred when the session setting `expect_and_ignore_not_visible_columns_in_copy` was enabled. This bug was introduced with `expect_and_ignore_not_visible_columns_in_copy` in v22.1.0.
- Disabled the `kv.lock_table.unreplicated_lock_reliability.split.enabled` feature, which could lead to a node crash.
- Fixed a bug where the presence of duplicate temporary tables in a backup caused the restore to fail with an error containing the text `restoring table desc and namespace entries: table already exists`.
