## v25.3.0-rc.1

Release Date: July 23, 2025

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v25-3-0-rc-1-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- The `CITEXT` data type is now supported, enabling case-insensitive comparisons for `CITEXT` columns. Internally, `CITEXT` is equivalent to using the undetermined level 2 collation `und-u-ks-level2`. For example, under `CITEXT`, the expression `'test' = 'TEST'` returns `TRUE`.
 [#149819][#149819]
- Added support for automatically determining the region column for a `REGIONAL BY ROW` table using a foreign key constraint. The foreign key is specified by setting a new table storage parameter `infer_rbr_region_col_using_constraint`, and must contain the region column. This can be useful for applications that are unable to guarantee that a child row is inserted or updated from the same region as the matching parent row.
 [#150366][#150366]
- The session setting `optimizer_min_row_count`, which sets a lower bound on row count estimates for relational expressions during query planning, is now set to `1` by default.
 [#150376][#150376]
- The `options` column in the output of `SHOW ROLES` and `SHOW USERS` commands is now returned as an array of strings (for example `{NOLOGIN,CREATEDB}`) rather than as a single comma-separated string. This change enables more efficient querying of role options using array functions like `unnest()`. For example: `SELECT * FROM [SHOW ROLES] AS r WHERE EXISTS (SELECT 1 FROM unnest(r.options) AS m(option) WHERE option LIKE 'SUBJECT=cn%');`
 [#149537][#149537]
- The `SHOW ROLES` and `SHOW USERS` commands now include an `estimated_last_login_time` column that displays the estimated timestamp of when each user last authenticated to the database. This column shows `NULL` for users who have never logged in, and for existing users after upgrading to v25.3 until their next login. The tracking is performed on a best-effort basis and may not capture every login event.
 [#149537][#149537]

<h3 id="v25-3-0-rc-1-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- A new feature is now available that automatically captures Go execution traces on a scheduled interval. This feature incurs a performance penalty and is generally intended for use under the guidance of Cockroach Labs Support. This feature can be configured using the following cluster settings:
  - `obs.execution_tracer.interval`: Enables the tracer and sets the interval for capturing traces. Set to a value greater than 0 to activate.
  - `obs.execution_tracer.duration`: Specifies the duration for each captured trace.
  - `obs.execution_tracer.total_dump_size_limit`: Sets the maximum disk space allowed for storing execution traces. Older traces are automatically deleted when this limit is reached.
 [#149705][#149705]
- The value of `sql.stats.error_on_concurrent_create_stats.enabled` now defaults to `false`, suppressing error counters for auto stats jobs that fail due to concurrent stats jobs in progress.
 [#149857][#149857]

<h3 id="v25-3-0-rc-1-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a slow memory leak that was introduced in v25.1.8, v25.2.1, v25.2.2, and v25.3 betas. The leak would accumulate whenever a node executed a part of the distributed plan (the gateway node of the plan was not affected), and could only be mitigated by restarting the node.
 [#149920][#149920]
- Fixed an issue where some SQL metrics were not reported when `server.child_metrics.enabled` was enabled, `server.child_metrics.include_aggregate.enabled` was disabled, and `sql.metrics.application_name.enabled` and `sql.metrics.database_name.enabled` were also disabled. Specifically, metrics with no children now report their aggregate metrics regardless of the `server.child_metrics.include_aggregate.enabled` cluster setting.
 [#149929][#149929]
- Fixed a bug that would allow a race condition in foreign key cascades under `READ COMMITTED` and `REPEATABLE READ` isolation levels.
 [#150296][#150296]
- Fixed an issue where discarding zone configs on sequences did not actually remove the configuration.
 [#150360][#150360]

<h3 id="v25-3-0-rc-1-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- Mutation statements (`UPDATE` and `DELETE`) that perform lookup joins into multi-region tables (perhaps as part of a `CASCADE`) are now more likely to parallelize the lookups across ranges, improving their performance.
 [#150016][#150016]


[#150376]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/150376
[#149705]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/149705
[#149857]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/149857
[#149929]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/149929
[#150360]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/150360
[#149819]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/149819
[#150366]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/150366
[#149920]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/149920
[#150296]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/150296
[#150016]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/150016
[#149537]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/149537
