## v23.1.0-alpha.6

Release Date: March 13, 2023

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-6-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- Previously, an `ALTER TABLE .. ADD UNIQUE .. NOT VALID` statement would be processed by ignoring the `NOT VALID` qualifier. This is not in keeping with PostgreSQL, which would throw an error instead. Now, CockroachDB throws the same error as PostgreSQL for such a statement: "UNIQUE constraints cannot be marked NOT VALID". #97758
- Introduced a new internal virtual table `crdb_internal.node_memory_monitors`, which exposes all of the current reservations with the memory accounting system on a single node. Access to the table requires the `VIEWACTIVITY` [system privilege](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/security-reference/authorization#supported-privileges) (or the legacy `VIEWACTIVITY` [role option](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/security-reference/authorization#role-options)), or the `VIEWACTIVITYREDACTED` [system privilege](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/security-reference/authorization#supported-privileges) (or the legacy `VIEWACTIVITYREDACTED` [role option](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/security-reference/authorization#role-options)) defined. #97657
- Each type cast is now expressible as a function, e.g., `now()::date` can be expressed as `date(now())`. #97093
- Added support for a new syntax to provide options to the [`COPY`]({% link v23.1/copy.md %}) statement. The options can now be given in a comma-separated list enclosed by parentheses. The old syntax is still supported. #97863
- Added support for the syntax `CREATE DATABASE IF NOT EXISTS ... WITH OWNER`. #97951
- Added a new internal [built-in function]({% link v23.1/functions-and-operators.md %}#trigrams-functions), `crdb_internal.redactable_sql_constants`, which can be used to redact SQL statements passed in as strings. #97834
- Added an `error_code` column to the `crdb_internal.cluster_execution_insights` and `crdb_internal.node_execution_insights`virtual tables, which contains the error code for a failed execution. Also added a `last_error_code` column to the `crdb_internal.cluster_txn_execution_insights` and `crdb_internal.node_txn_execution_insights` virtual tables, which contains the error code of the last failed statement in that transaction. #97046
- Added a new internal [built-in function]({% link v23.1/functions-and-operators.md %}#trigrams-functions), `crdb_internal.redact`, which replaces substrings surrounded by redaction markers with the redacted marker. #98008

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-6-command-line-changes">Command-line changes</h3>

- The [`cockroach node decommission`]({% link v23.1/cockroach-node.md %}) operation now validates the ability of the node to complete a decommission before attempting it, given the cluster configuration and the ranges with replicas present on the node. When errors are detected that would result in the inability to complete node decommission, they will be printed to stderr and the command will exit, instead of marking the node as `decommissioning` and beginning the node decommission process. Strict readiness evaluation mode can be used by setting`--checks=strict`. In this case, any ranges that need preliminary actions prior to replacement for the decommission process (e.g., ranges that are not yet fully up-replicated) will block the decommission process. Validation can be skipped by using the flag `--checks=skip`. #96100

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-6-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- Updated the description for [Suboptimal Insight]({% link v23.1/ui-insights-page.md %}) and added a **Learn more** link to it. #97719

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-6-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- The unquoted value `none` is now allowed as the value in a [`SET`]({% link v23.1/set-vars.md %}) statement. #97816
- `IMPORT INTO ... DELIMITED DATA` will now correctly handle quoted fields that contain unescaped newlines. #97545
- Previously, casting an `inet` to a string type omitted the mask if a mask was not provided. This was not in keeping with PostgreSQL and is now resolved. #97093
- Fixed link encoding on links to database/table/index pages. #97893
- Fixed the [`SHOW CREATE ALL {TYPES|SCHEMAS|TABLES}`]({% link v23.1/show-create.md %}) commands so they handle database names that have mixed-case, hyphens, or quotes. #97915
- Tables referenced in index recommendations are now fully qualified, ensuring that they are not ambiguous. #97262
- Changed the database used for [SQL API]({% link v23.1/sql-statements.md %}) calls, to no longer use `defaultdb`, which was causing error messages on some pages when that database no longer exists. #97990

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-6-build-changes">Build changes</h3>

- Changes to source files in `pkg/ui/workspaces/db-console` now properly bust the build cache, and are consistently included in local builds. #97956

<div class="release-note-contributors" markdown="1">

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-6-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 69 merged PRs by 39 authors.

</div>

