## v23.1.21

Release Date: May 7, 2024

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v23-1-21-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- The `FORCE_INVERTED_INDEX` hint causes the [optimizer]({% link v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.md %}) to prefer a query plan scan over any [inverted index]({% link v23.1/inverted-indexes.md %}) of the hinted table. An error is emitted if no such query plan can be generated. [#122301][#122301]
- Introduced three new [cluster settings]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) for controlling [table statistics]({% link v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.md %}#table-statistics) forecasting:
    - [`sql.stats.forecasts.min_observations`]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) is the minimum number of observed statistics required to produce a forecast.
    - [`sql.stats.forecasts.min_goodness_of_fit`]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) is the minimum R² (goodness of fit) measurement required from all predictive models to use a forecast.
    - [`sql.stats.forecasts.max_decrease`]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) is the most a prediction can decrease, expressed as the minimum ratio of the prediction to the lowest prior observation. [#122990][#122990]
- Added a [session variable]({% link v23.1/set-vars.md %}) `optimizer_use_improved_multi_column_selectivity_estimate`, which if enabled, causes the [optimizer]({% link v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.md %}) to use an improved selectivity estimate for multi-column predicates. This setting will default to `true` on v24.2 and later, and `false` on prior versions. [#123068][#123068]

<h3 id="v23-1-21-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- A minimum [Raft scheduler]({% link v23.1/architecture/replication-layer.md %}#raft) concurrency is now enforced per [store]({% link v23.1/architecture/storage-layer.md %}#overview) so that nodes with many stores do not spread workers too thinly. This helps to avoid high scheduler latency across replicas on a store when load is imbalanced. [#120797][#120797]

<h3 id="v23-1-21-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug introduced in v22.2.9 that could cause a slow memory leak that can accumulate when opening many new connections. [#121056][#121056]
- [Sequence]({% link v23.1/create-sequence.md %}) options for `NO MINVALUE` and `NO MAXVALUE` now match [PostgreSQL behavior](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/sql-createsequence.html). Sequence `MINVALUE` and `MAXVALUE` now automatically adjust to the bounds of a new integer type in [`ALTER SEQUENCE ... AS`]({% link v23.1/alter-sequence.md %}), matching PostgreSQL behavior. [#121307][#121307]
- Fixed a bug where the [timeseries graphs shown on the **SQL Activity Statement Fingerprint** page]({% link v23.1/ui-statements-page.md %}#charts) in the [DB Console]({% link v23.1/ui-overview.md %}) were not rendering properly. This involved fixing a bug related to setting the time range of the charts. [#121382][#121382] [#122235][#122235]
- Fixed a bug where CockroachDB could incorrectly evaluate `IN` expressions that had `INT2` or `INT4` type on the left side, and values on the right side that were outside the range of the left side. The bug had been present since at least v21.1. [#121955][#121955]
- Previously, on long-running [sessions]({% link v23.1/show-sessions.md %}) that issue many (hundreds of thousands or more) [transactions]({% link v23.1/transactions.md %}), CockroachDB's internal memory accounting system, the limit for which is configured via the [`--max-sql-memory` flag]({% link v23.1/cockroach-start.md %}#general) could leak. This bug, in turn, could result in the error message `"root: memory budget exceeded"` for other queries. The bug was present in v23.1.17 and is now fixed. [#121949][#121949] [#122235][#122235]
- Reintroduced [cluster setting]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) `sql.auth.modify_cluster_setting_applies_to_all.enabled` so that mixed-version clusters can migrate off of this setting, which is deprecated in favor of the privilege [`MODIFYSQLCLUSTERSETTING`]({% link v23.1/set-cluster-setting.md %}#required-privileges). [#122055][#122055] [#122635][#122635]
- Fixed a bug where a [`GRANT ... ON ALL TABLES`]({% link v23.1/grant.md %}) statement could fail if sequences existed and they did not support a privilege (e.g., `BACKUP`). [#122057][#122057]
- Fixed a bug where [client certificate authentication]({% link v23.1/authentication.md %}#client-authentication) combined with [identity maps]({% link v23.1/sso-sql.md %}#identity-map-configuration) (`server.identity_map.configuration`) did not work. For the feature to work correctly, the client must specify a valid database user in the [connection string]({% link v23.1/connection-parameters.md %}). This bug had been present since v23.1. [#122746][#122746]
- Statistics forecasts of zero rows can cause suboptimal [query plans]({% link v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.md %}). Forecasting will now avoid predicting zero rows for most downward-trending statistics. [#122990][#122990]

<h3 id="v23-1-21-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- More efficient [query plans]({% link v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.md %}) are now generated for queries with text similarity filters, for example, `text_col % 'foobar'`. These plans are generated if the `optimizer_use_trigram_similarity_optimization` [session setting]({% link v23.1/set-vars.md %}) is enabled. It is disabled by default. [#122683][#122683]
- Added a new [session variable]({% link v23.1/set-vars.md %}) `optimizer_use_improved_zigzag_join_costing`. When enabled, the cost of [zigzag joins]({% link v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.md %}#zigzag-joins) is updated so zigzag joins will only be chosen over scans if the zigzag joins produce fewer rows. This change only applies if the session variable `enable_zigzag_join` is also `on`. [#123068][#123068]
- Improved the selectivity estimation of multi-column filters by the [optimizer]({% link v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.md %}) when the multi-column distinct count is high. This avoids cases where CockroachDB significantly over-estimates the selectivity of a multi-column predicate and as a result can prevent the optimizer from choosing a bad query plan. [#123068][#123068]

<h3 id="v23-1-21-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 59 merged PRs by 26 authors.

</div>

[#120797]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/120797
[#121056]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/121056
[#121307]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/121307
[#121382]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/121382
[#121949]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/121949
[#121955]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/121955
[#122055]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122055
[#122057]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122057
[#122235]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122235
[#122301]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122301
[#122635]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122635
[#122683]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122683
[#122746]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122746
[#122990]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122990
[#123068]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123068
