## v23.1.20

Release Date: May 1, 2024

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v23-1-20-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- Added a [session variable]({% link v23.1/set-vars.md %}) `optimizer_use_improved_multi_column_selectivity_estimate`, which if enabled, causes the [optimizer]({% link v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.md %}) to use an improved selectivity estimate for multi-column predicates. This setting will default to `true` on versions 24.2+, and `false` on prior versions. [#123152][#123152]
- Added three new [cluster settings]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) for controlling [optimizer table statistics]({% link v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.md %}#table-statistics) forecasting:
    1. `sql.stats.forecasts.min_observations` is the minimum number of observed statistics required to produce a forecast.
    1. `sql.stats.forecasts.min_goodness_of_fit` is the minimum R² (goodness of fit) measurement required from all predictive models to use a forecast.
    1. `sql.stats.forecasts.max_decrease` is the most a prediction can decrease, expressed as the minimum ratio of the prediction to the lowest prior observation. [#123149][#123149]

<h3 id="v23-1-20-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Statistics forecasts of zero rows by [the optimizer]({% link v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.md %}#table-statistics) can cause bad plans. This commit changes forecasting to avoid predicting zero rows for most downward-trending statistics. [#123149][#123149]
- A [job]({% link v23.1/show-jobs.md %}) will now [log]({% link v23.1/logging.md %}#ops) rather than fail if it reports an out-of bound progress fraction. [#123133][#123133]

<h3 id="v23-1-20-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- Added a new [session variable]({% link v23.1/set-vars.md %}) `optimizer_use_improved_zigzag_join_costing`. When enabled, the cost of [zigzag joins]({% link v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.md %}#zigzag-joins) is updated so zigzag joins will only be chosen over scans if the zigzag joins produce fewer rows. This change only applies if the session variable `enable_zigzag_join` is also `on`. [#123152][#123152]
- Improved the selectivity estimation of multi-column filters by the [optimizer]({% link v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.md %}) when the multi-column distinct count is high. This avoids cases where CockroachDB significantly over-estimates the selectivity of a multi-column predicate and as a result can prevent the optimizer from choosing a bad query plan. [#123152][#123152]

<div class="release-note-contributors" markdown="1">

<h3 id="v23-1-20-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 5 merged PRs by 5 authors.

</div>

[#123133]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123133
[#123149]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123149
[#123152]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123152
