## v23.1.29

Release Date: November 18, 2024

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v23-1-29-general-changes">General changes</h3>

- Changed the license CockroachDB is distributed under to the new CockroachDB Software License (CSL).
- Attempting to install a second enterprise trial license on the same cluster will now fail.
- The cluster setting `diagnostics.reporting.enabled` is now ignored if the cluster has a Trial or Free license, or if the reporting job is unable to load any license at all.

<h3 id="v23-1-29-{{-site.data.products.enterprise-}}-edition-changes">{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} edition changes</h3>

- A new `changefeed.total_ranges` metric has been added and can be used to monitor the number of ranges that are watched by changefeed aggregators. It shares the same polling interval as `changefeed.lagging_ranges`, which is controlled by the existing `changefeed.lagging_ranges_polling_interval` cluster setting.
- Allowed access to DB console APIs via JWT, which can be supplied as a Bearer token in the Authorization header.

<h3 id="v23-1-29-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- DB Console will reflect any throttling behavior from the cluster due to an expired license or missing telemetry data. Enterprise licenses are not affected.

<h3 id="v23-1-29-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug introduced in v23.1 that can cause incorrect results when:
    1. The query contains a correlated subquery.
    2. The correlated subquery has a `GroupBy` or `DistinctOn` operator with an outer-column reference in its input.
    3. The correlated subquery is in the input of a `Select` or `Join` operator
    4. The `Select` or `Join` has a filter that sets the outer-column reference from (2) equal to a non-outer column in the input of the grouping operator.
    5. The grouping column set does not include the replacement column, and functionally determines the replacement column.
- The AWS endpoint and cloud custom HTTP client configuration are now considered when implicit authentication is used, whereas previously these were only considered when using explicit credentials.
- Fixed a bug that could cause spurious user permission errors when multiple databases shared a common schema with a routine referencing a table. The bug has existed since UDFs were introduced in v22.2.
- Fixed a rare bug where a lease transfer could lead to a `side-transport update saw closed timestamp regression` panic. The bug could occur when a node was overloaded and failing to heartbeat its node liveness record.
- Fixed an error that could happen if an aggregate function was used as the value in a `SET` command.
- Fixed a bug where a span stats request on a mixed version cluster resulted in a null pointer exception (NPE).
- Fixed a rare bug in which an update of a primary key column which is also the only column in a separate column family can sometimes fail to update the primary index. This bug has existed since v22.2. Requirements to hit the bug are:
    1. A table with multiple column families.
    2. A column family containing a single primary key column.
    3. That column family is not the first column family.
    4. That column family existed before its column was in the primary key.
    5. That column must be of type `FLOAT4/8`, `DECIMAL`, `JSON`, collated `STRING`, or `ARRAY`.
    6. An update changes that column from a composite value to a non-composite value.
- The `proretset` column of the `pg_catalog.pg_proc` table is now properly set to `true` for set-returning builtin functions.
- Fixed a bug in the query optimizer which could cause CockroachDB nodes to crash in rare cases. The bug could occur when a query contained a filter of the form `col IN (elem0, elem1, ..., elemN)` such that `N` is very large, e.g. 1.6+ million, and when `col` exists in a hash-sharded index or exists in a table with an indexed, computed column dependent on `col`.
- Users with the admin role can now run `ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGES FOR target_role ...` on any `target_role`. Previously, this could result in a privilege error, which is incorrect as admins are allowed to perform any operation.
- `REASSIGN OWNED BY` will now transfer ownership of the public schema. Previously, it would always skip over the public schema even if it was owned by the target role.
- Fixed a bug where backup schedules could advance a protected timestamp too early, which caused incremental backups to fail.
