## v23.1.23

Release Date: June 20, 2024

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v23-1-23-{{-site.data.products.enterprise-}}-edition-changes">{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} edition changes</h3>

- Fixed a bug that was present since v22.2 where [changefeeds]({% link v23.1/change-data-capture-overview.md %}) with long-running [initial scans]({% link v23.1/create-changefeed.md %}#initial-scan) might incorrectly restore checkpoint job progress and drop events during [changefeed restarts]({% link v23.1/changefeed-messages.md %}#duplicate-messages) due to transient errors or node restarts. The bug was most likely to occur in clusters with the following contributing factors:
    - The [cluster settings]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) `changefeed.frontier_checkpoint_frequency` and `changefeed.frontier_highwater_lag_checkpoint_threshold` were set low, which resulted in the initial scan taking many multiples of the configured frequency to complete.
    - There were multiple target tables with significant differences in row counts in one changefeed.
    - The changefeed target tables were large with many ranges.
    - The initial scan took a long time to complete (an hour or longer). [#123970][#123970] [#124759][#124759]
- Introduced the `changefeed.random_replica_selection.enabled` [cluster setting]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) that changes the behavior of changefeed planning work distribution. When `changefeed.random_replica_selection.enabled` is set to `true`, [changefeeds]({% link v23.1/change-data-capture-overview.md %}) will evenly distribute their work across all [replicas]({% link v23.1/architecture/glossary.md %}#replica), including [followers]({% link v23.1/architecture/replication-layer.md %}#raft), regardless of [leaseholder]({% link v23.1/architecture/glossary.md %}#leaseholder) placement. `changefeed.random_replica_selection.enabled` is disabled by default. [#124930][#124930]

<h3 id="v23-1-23-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- Introduced three new [cluster settings]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) for controlling [table statistics forecasting]({% link v23.1/show-statistics.md %}#display-forecasted-statistics):
    - [`sql.stats.forecasts.min_observations`]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) is the minimum number of observed statistics required to produce a forecast.
    - [`sql.stats.forecasts.min_goodness_of_fit`]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) is the minimum R² (goodness of fit) measurement required from all predictive models to use a forecast.
    - [`sql.stats.forecasts.max_decrease`]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) is the most a prediction can decrease, expressed as the minimum ratio of the prediction to the lowest prior observation. [#124076][#124076]
- Added a new [session setting]({% link v23.1/session-variables.md %}) `optimizer_use_improved_multi_column_selectivity_estimate`, which if enabled, causes the [optimizer]({% link v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.md %}) to use an improved selectivity estimate for multi-column predicates. This setting will default to `true` on v24.2 and later, and `false` on earlier versions. [#124076][#124076]
- The [row-level TTL]({% link v23.1/row-level-ttl.md %}) setting [`ttl_delete_rate_limit`]({% link v23.1/row-level-ttl.md %}#ttl-storage-parameters) is now set to `100` by default, which sets the rate limit for deleting expired rows to `100`. [#124362][#124362]
- CockroachDB no longer limits precision when converting [spatial data types]({% link v23.1/architecture/glossary.md %}#data-types) to [JSON]({% link v23.1/jsonb.md %}). [#124534][#124534]

<h3 id="v23-1-23-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- - The `client_authentication_ok` and `client_session_end` events are now logged to the [`SESSIONS` log channel]({% link v23.1/logging-use-cases.md %}#sessions) unconditionally. Previously, these would only be logged if the `server.auth_log.sql_sessions.enabled` [cluster setting]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) was set to `true`. All other `SESSIONS` log messages are still only logged if `server.auth_log.sql_sessions.enabled` or `server.auth_log.sql_connections.enabled` are set to `true`. To not show `client_authentication_ok` and `client_session_end` events, disable the `SESSIONS` log channel entirely. [#124375][#124375]

<h3 id="v23-1-23-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- Viewing the [**SQL Activity**]({% link v23.1/ui-statements-page.md %}#statement-fingerprints-results) sorted by `% of Runtime` now correctly sorts entries by the runtime amount. [#123899][#123899]
- The [DB Console]({% link v23.1/ui-overview.md %}) favicon and other image files now render properly. [#122702][#122702]

<h3 id="v23-1-23-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug where a failed [restore]({% link v23.1/restore.md %}) job could leave the system in a state where re-attempting the restore was not possible without manual intervention. [#123462][#123462]
- [Index recommendations]({% link v23.1/ui-databases-page.md %}#index-recommendations) in the [DB Console]({% link v23.1/ui-overview.md %}) will now function properly for indexes on tables or columns whose names contain quotation marks or whitespace. For example: `CREATE INDEX ON "my table" ("my col");`. [#122117][#122117]
- Fixed a bug introduced in v23.1 where [client certificate authentication]({% link v23.1/authentication.md %}#client-authentication) combined with [identity maps]({% link v23.1/sso-sql.md %}#identity-map-configuration) (`server.identity_map.configuration`) did not work. For the feature to work correctly, the client must specify a valid database user in the [connection string]({% link v23.1/connection-parameters.md %}). [#124076][#124076]
- Statistics forecasts of zero rows can cause suboptimal [query plans]({% link v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.md %}). Forecasting will now avoid predicting zero rows for most downward-trending statistics. [#124076][#124076]
- Fixed a bug where [`DROP ROLE`]({% link v23.1/drop-role.md %}) and [`DROP USER`]({% link v23.1/drop-user.md %}) could leave references behind inside [`TYPE`s]({% link v23.1/create-type.md %}), which could prevent [`SHOW GRANTS`]({% link v23.1/show-grants.md %}) from working. [#124645][#124645]
- Scattering a range with a replication factor of 1 now no longer erroneously up-replicates the range to two replicas. Leases will also no longer thrash between nodes when perturbed with a replication factor of 1. [#124500][#124500]
- Fixed a bug where, if the `ttl_row_stats_poll_interval` storage parameter was non-zero for a table with [row-level TTL]({% link v23.1/row-level-ttl.md %}) enabled, the queries issued to update row statistics could block the job from completing. Now, if the job completes, these statistics queries are cancelled. This means that the `jobs.row_level_ttl.total_rows` and `jobs.row_level_ttl.total_expired_rows` metrics will report `0` if the job finishes before the row stats queries complete. [#124625][#124625]
- Fixed a bug where the `results_buffer_size` [session variable]({% link v23.1/session-variables.md %}) could not be configured by using the "options" query parameter in the connection string, but only as a top-level query parameter. Now, `results_buffer_size` can be configured in either part of the connection string. This variable still cannot be changed with the [`SET`]({% link v23.1/set-vars.md %}) command after the session begins. [#124773][#124773]
- [`SHOW TYPES`]({% link v23.1/show-types.md %}) now includes user-defined [composite types]({% link v23.1/create-type.md %}#create-a-composite-data-type). `SHOW TYPES` previously omitted composite types, which were added in v23.1.0. [#124815][#124815]
- Fixed a bug where a change to a [user-defined type]({% link v23.1/create-type.md %}) could cause queries against tables using that type to fail with the error `histogram.go:694: span must be fully contained in the bucket`. The change to the user-defined type could come directly from an [`ALTER TYPE`]({% link v23.1/alter-type.md %}) statement, or indirectly from an [`ALTER DATABASE ADD REGION`]({% link v23.1/alter-database.md %}#add-region) or [`DROP REGION`]({% link v23.1/alter-database.md %}#drop-region) statement (which implicitly change the `crdb_internal_region` type). This bug was present since user-defined types were introduced in v20.2. [#125473][#125473]

<h3 id="v23-1-23-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- More efficient [query plans]({% link v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.md %}) are now generated for queries with text similarity filters, for example, `text_col % 'foobar'`. These plans are generated if the `optimizer_use_trigram_similarity_optimization` [session setting]({% link v23.1/session-variables.md %}) is enabled. It is disabled by default. [#124076][#124076]
- Added a new [session setting]({% link v23.1/session-variables.md %}) `optimizer_use_improved_zigzag_join_costing`. When enabled and when the [cluster setting]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) `enable_zigzag_join` is also enabled, the cost of zigzag joins is updated such that a zigzag join will be chosen over a scan only if it produces fewer rows than a scan. [#124076][#124076]
- Improved the selectivity estimation of multi-column filters when the multi-column distinct count is high. This prevents the [optimizer]({% link v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.md %}) from choosing a suboptimal query plan due to over-estimating the selectivity of a multi-column predicate. [#124076][#124076]

<div class="release-note-contributors" markdown="1">

<h3 id="v23-1-23-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 48 merged PRs by 23 authors.

</div>

[#122117]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122117
[#122702]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122702
[#123462]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123462
[#123899]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123899
[#123970]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123970
[#124076]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124076
[#124296]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124296
[#124362]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124362
[#124375]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124375
[#124500]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124500
[#124534]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124534
[#124625]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124625
[#124645]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124645
[#124759]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124759
[#124773]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124773
[#124815]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124815
[#124930]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124930
[#125473]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/125473
[268fbf5b4]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/268fbf5b4
