## v23.1.4

Release Date: June 20, 2023

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v23-1-4-security-updates">Security updates</h3>

- The new [`sql.auth.createrole_allows_grant_role_membership.enabled`]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}#setting-sql-auth-createrole-allows-grant-role-membership-enabled) cluster setting allows a user with the [`CREATEROLE` role option]({% link v23.1/create-user.md %}#role-options) to grant and revoke non-admin roles. This cluster setting defaults to `false`, but is expected to become the default behavior in the future.

<h3 id="v23-1-4-{{-site.data.products.enterprise-}}-edition-changes">{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} edition changes</h3>

- Fixed an initialization race condition in [changefeed schema feeds]({% link v23.1/changefeed-examples.md %}) that could cause a node to crash with a null pointer exception.

<h3 id="v23-1-4-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- Users with [`MODIFYSQLCLUSTERSETTING`](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/security-reference/authorization#supported-privileges) can now view only `sql.defaults` [cluster settings]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) instead of all cluster settings.

<h3 id="v23-1-4-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- The [`debug.zip`]({% link v23.1/cockroach-debug-zip.md %}) archive now contains the files formerly located at `nodes/*/ranges/*.json` in one file per node, `nodes/*/ranges.json`.
- The `http-defaults` and `http-servers` sections of the [log config]({% link v23.1/configure-logs.md %}) will now accept a `headers` field containing a map of key-value string pairs which will comprise custom HTTP headers appended to every request. Additionally, a `compression` value can now be set to `gzip` or `none` to select a compression method for the HTTP request body. By default, `gzip` is selected. Previous functionality did not compress by default.

<h3 id="v23-1-4-command-line-changes">Command-line changes</h3>

- The new log config option [`buffering`]({% link v23.1/configure-logs.md %}#log-buffering-for-network-sinks) allows you to [format buffer output as JSON arrays]({% link v23.1/configure-logs.md %}#file-logging-format). This is useful for APIs that consume JSON arrays, such as the Datadog logs API.

<h3 id="v23-1-4-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- The DB Console overview page now displays a warning when all nodes are running on a new version but the cluster upgrade has not been finalized.
- The histogram window merge calculation now interpolates quantile values more accurately, and [**Metrics** charts]({% link v23.1/ui-overview.md %}#metrics) in the DB Console are smoother and more accurate.

<h3 id="v23-1-4-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug where a transaction retry could miss job rows during the backfill of the [**Jobs** table]({% link v23.1/ui-jobs-page.md %}#jobs-table).
- Fixed a bug where admin or root user privileges were erroneously required to use [`SHOW SYSTEM GRANTS`]({% link v23.1/show-system-grants.md %}).
- Fixed a bug that prevented display of the column selector on the [**Jobs** page]({% link v23.1/ui-jobs-page.md %}).
- Fixed a bug where an invalid split could crash and prevent restarts of nodes that hold a replica for the right-hand side.
- Fixed the `debug recover make-plan` command to ignore partial range metadata when the metadata can't be fully read, and instead rely solely on replica info from storage to produce the recovery plan.
- Fixed a metric bug that could cause volumes such as RAID logical volumes to be counted twice.[#104806][#104806]
- Fixed a bug in `upstream etcd-io/raft` which could cause an unlimited amount of log to be loaded into memory. This could cause a node to crash with an out-of-memory (OOM) exception. The log scan now has a limited memory footprint.

<div class="release-note-contributors" markdown="1">

<h3 id="v23-1-4-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 53 merged PRs by 30 authors.

</div>
