## v23.1.5

Release Date: July 5, 2023

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v23-1-5-security-updates">Security updates</h3>

- The full set of TLS ciphers that was present in v22.1 have been included in the existing cipher suites list, which can be enabled with the `COCKROACH_TLS_ENABLE_OLD_CIPHER_SUITES` environment variable.

<h3 id="v23-1-5-{{-site.data.products.enterprise-}}-edition-changes">{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} edition changes</h3>

- Added new [cluster settings]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) in the `server.oidc_authentication.generate_cluster_sso_token` namespace that support using OIDC to generate a [JWT auth token for cluster SSO]({% link v23.1/sso-sql.md %}).

<h3 id="v23-1-5-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- Improved the inline documentation and error messages related to [`SHOW RANGES`]({% link v23.1/show-ranges.md %}).
- Inbound [foreign keys]({% link v23.1/foreign-key.md %}) on TTL tables are now allowed.
- Added the columns `default_value` and `origin` ( with the values `default`, `override`, `external-override`) to the [`SHOW CLUSTER SETTING`]({% link v23.1/show-cluster-setting.md %}) command.
- Added the `VIEWACTIVITY` and `VIEWACTIVITYREDACTED` [system privileges](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/security-reference/authorization#supported-privileges) for the `crdb_internal.cluster_queries` and `crdb_internal.node_queries` [tables]({% link v23.1/crdb-internal.md %}).
- Fixed the error message to be more understandable when attempting to create [UDFs]({% link v23.1/user-defined-functions.md %}) under a virtual or temporary schema.

<h3 id="v23-1-5-command-line-changes">Command-line changes</h3>

- Running [`cockroch node decommission <nodeID>`]({% link v23.1/cockroach-node.md %}#node-decommission) for a node that has already been decommissioned will now exit with code 0, as had been the case in CockroachDB versions prior to v23.1.0.

<h3 id="v23-1-5-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- The [**Range Report** page]({% link v23.1/ui-hot-ranges-page.md %}#range-report) (route `/reports/range/:rangeID`) shows the **Hot Ranges** menu item as highlighted in the left-side menu. The back button in the **Range Report** page redirects back to the **Hot Ranges** page.
- Added description to the tooltip for the `Idle` status only for the Active Transactions view. Excluded `Idle` status filter option for the Active Statements view.

<h3 id="v23-1-5-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Added more precision to small percentage values on the percentage bars on the DB Console.
- Fixed a crash when using `DurationToNumber` with empty duration object on SQL Activity tables.
- `SpanStats` is no longer subject to stale information, and should be considered authoritative.
- Fixed a bug in MuxRangefeed implementation that may cause MuxRangefeed to become stuck if enough ranges encountered certain error concurrently.
- [`SHOW CHANGEFEED JOBS`]({% link v23.1/show-jobs.md %}) no longer fails on v22.2 and v23.1 mixed-version clusters.
- [`GRANT SYSTEM ALL ...`]({% link v23.1/grant.md %}) no longer causes the grantee to be unable to log in. This was due to a bug where `ALL` would include the `NOSQLLOGIN` [system privilege](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/security-reference/authorization#supported-privileges). Since `NOSQLLOGIN` is the only "negative" privilege, it is now excluded from the `ALL` shorthand, and must be granted explicitly in order to restrict logins.
- CockroachDB previously could encounter `zero transaction timestamp in EvalContext` when evaluating the [`COPY FROM`]({% link v23.1/copy.md %}) command. The bug was introduced in v23.1.0 and is now fixed.
- Fixed the data fetching for the **Database** and **Table Details** pages. Prior to this change, some databases/tables could be permanently stuck in a loading state, causing their corresponding page to permanently show a spinner. This change fixes the data fetching for these pages to ensure all databases and tables are loaded correctly.
- Fixed a bug where [`INSERT .. ON CONFLICT .. DO UPDATE`]({% link v23.1/insert.md %}) queries incorrectly resulted in an "ambiguous column" error. The bug only presented if the target table had a computed column with an expression referencing a column with a `DEFAULT` value.
- On the **SQL Statistics** pages, a transaction query is now available as long as the statement fingerprints associated with the transaction also exist in the payload.
- Previously, CockroachDB would crash when evaluating [`CREATE TABLE .. AS or CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW .. AS`]({% link v23.1/create-table.md %}) statements when the `AS` clause selected data from `crdb_internal.cluster_statement_statistics` or `crdb_internal.cluster_transaction_statistics` virtual tables. The bug has been present since at least v22.1 and is now fixed.
- Fixed a source of mutex contention within the storage engine that could increase tail latencies on high-CPU, high-throughput deployments.
- Fixed a bug where nodes could terminate with the following message: `server startup failed: cockroach server exited with error: ‹migration-job-find-already-completed›: key range id:X is unavailable: ‹failed to send RPC: no replica node information available via gossip for rX›`.
- Previously, cross-database type references were allowed through `CREATE TABLE...AS` statements if the source table was from another database and any of its columns was of a user-defined type. This introduced a bug where the source table could be dropped and the type could not be found for the CTAS table. This commit disallows such CTAS as a fix.
- CockroachDB can now automatically delete statistics for dropped tables from `system.table_statistics` table. However, out of caution, this mechanism is disabled by default on v23.1 releases.
- Fixed a race condition that can occur when multiple SQL servers are created simultaneously, causing simultaneous writes to an unprotected global variable used to configure a CCL audit logging feature.
- Previously, referencing a user-defined type in the body of a [user-defined function]({% link v23.1/user-defined-functions.md %}) would result in an error at the time of creating the function. This is now fixed.
- CockroachDB now returns an error during [UDF]({% link v23.1/user-defined-functions.md %}) creation if an input argument has type `RECORD`.

<h3 id="v23-1-5-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- If the `sql.optimizer.uniqueness_checks_for_gen_random_uuid.enabled` [cluster setting]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) is disabled, the optimizer can now eliminate uniqueness checks for `STRING` and `BYTES` columns when the value is set to `gen_random_uuid()` (with an implicit or explicit cast to `STRING` or `BYTES`). If you still want the checks, you can set `sql.optimizer.uniqueness_checks_for_gen_random_uuid.enabled` to `true` (the default is `false`).

<div class="release-note-contributors" markdown="1">

<h3 id="v23-1-5-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 115 merged PRs by 44 authors.

</div>
