## v23.1.0-alpha.9

Release Date: April 4, 2023

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-9-backward-incompatible-changes">Backward-incompatible changes</h3>

- The output of the [`SHOW RANGES`]({% link v23.1/show-ranges.md %}) command for the `crdb_internal.ranges` and `crdb_internal.ranges_no_leases` tables has been updated, and the previous output is deprecated. To enable the new command output, set the `sql.show_ranges_deprecated_behavior.enabled` [cluster setting]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) to `false`. The new output will become default in v23.2.

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-9-{{-site.data.products.enterprise-}}-edition-changes">{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} edition changes</h3>

- The [`CREATE CHANGEFEED`]({% link v23.1/create-changefeed.md %}) statement now allows you to limit the nodes that can execute a changefeed by including a locality filter in the `WITH` clause. A node can execute the changefeed only if it was started with a matching [`--locality`](https://cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/cockroach-start#locality) flag. Replace `{locality}` with a comma-separated list of key-value pairs.

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-9-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- The new `prepared_statements_cache_size` [session setting](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v22.2/set-vars) helps to prevent [prepared statement]({% link v23.1/savepoint.md %}#savepoints-and-prepared-statements) leaks by automatically deallocating the least-recently-used prepared statements when the cache reaches a given size.

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-9-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- The new `COCKROACH_DISABLE_NODE_AND_TENANT_METRIC_LABELS` [environment variable]({% link v23.1/cockroach-commands.md %}#environment-variables) allows you to suppress metrics from a cluster's [Prometheus endpoint]({% link v23.1/monitoring-and-alerting.md %}#prometheus-endpoint) if they conflict with labels that are applied by external tools that collect metrics from the endpoint. Set the environment variable to a comma-separated list of key-value pairs.

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-9-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- The [**Index Details**]({% link v23.1/ui-databases-page.md %}#index-details) section of the **Databases** page now displays the list of most-frequently-used index fingerprints to all users, rather than only to `admin` users, because the page now queries a view rather than a system table directly.
- When you search or filter within the [**Statements** page]({% link v23.1/ui-statements-page.md %}) or [**Transactions** page]({% link v23.1/ui-transactions-page.md %}), if you interactively sort the results using a column that was not part of the original query, a warning displays if you are viewing only a subset of the results, along with a suggestion to update the original query.

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-9-miscellaneous">Miscellaneous</h3>

- Several computed columns have been added to the `statement_statistics_persisted` and `transaction_statistics_persisted` views in the [`crdb_internal`]({% link v23.1/crdb-internal.md %}) system catalog and indexed in the corresponding system tables:

    - `execution_count`
    - `service_latency`
    - `cpu_sql_nanos`
    - `contention_time`
    - `total_estimated_execution_time`
    - `p99_latency`

   

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-9-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed pagination bugs when searching or filtering within the [**Databases** page]({% link v23.1/ui-databases-page.md %}) or viewing the details of a database.
- Fixed a rare bug introduced in v22.2.0 that could cause a node to crash with an `attempting to append refresh spans after the tracked timestamp has moved forward` error when querying virtual tables in the [`crdb_internal`]({% link v23.1/crdb-internal.md %}) or [`pg_catalog`]({% link v23.1/pg-catalog.md %}) system catalogs. If you are experiencing this bug, set the `sql.distsql.use_streamer.enabled` [cluster setting]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) to `false` before upgrading a cluster to v23.1.
- Fixed a bug that could erroneously cause multiple garbage-collection jobs to be created when executing a [`DROP SCHEMA ... CASCADE`]({% link v23.1/drop-schema.md %}) command, one job for each table and one for the cascaded `DROP` itself.
- Fixed a bug in the [**Insights** page]({% link v23.1/ui-insights-page.md %}#schema-insights-tab) that prevented a recommendation to drop an index from being executed if the index's name contained a space.
- Fixed a rare bug that prevented the garbage-collection job for a [`TRUNCATE`]({% link v23.1/truncate.md %}) command from successfully finishing if the table descriptor had already been garbage-collected. The garbage-collection job now succeeds in this situation.
- Fixed a rare bug that could cause a query of a virtual table in the [`crdb_internal`]({% link v23.1/crdb-internal.md %}) or [`pg_catalog`]({% link v23.1/pg-catalog.md %}) system catalog to hang indefinitely if the query returned an error.
- Fixed a bug introduced prior to v21.2 that could cause the SQL gateway node to crash if you [created a view]({% link v23.1/create-view.md %}) with a circular or self-referencing dependencies. This situation no longer crashes the node, and a `cyclic view dependency for relation` error is now logged.
- Several rare bugs have been fixed that could cause corruption in the existing primary index when a rollback occurs concurrent to adding or removing a [column family]({% link v23.1/column-families.md %}). This could lead to subsequent unavailability of the table.
- Fixed a bug that could cause a node to crash with an out-of-memory (OOM) exception when viewing details in the [**Statements** page]({% link v23.1/ui-statements-page.md %}) or [**Transactions** page]({% link v23.1/ui-transactions-page.md %}).

<div class="release-note-contributors" markdown="1">

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-9-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 75 merged PRs by 41 authors.

</div>
