## v23.1.22

Release Date: May 23, 2024

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v23-1-22-{{-site.data.products.enterprise-}}-edition-changes">{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} edition changes</h3>

- Fixed a bug that was present since v22.2 where [changefeeds]({% link v23.1/change-data-capture-overview.md %}) with long-running [initial scans]({% link v23.1/create-changefeed.md %}#initial-scan) might incorrectly restore checkpoint job progress and drop events during [changefeed restarts]({% link v23.1/changefeed-messages.md %}#duplicate-messages) due to transient errors or node restarts. The bug was most likely to occur in clusters with the following contributing factors:
    - The `changefeed.shutdown_checkpoint.enabled` [cluster setting]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) was enabled.
    - The cluster settings `changefeed.frontier_checkpoint_frequency` and `low changefeed.frontier_highwater_lag_checkpoint_threshold` were set low, which resulted in the initial scan taking many multiples of the configured frequency to complete.
    - There were multiple target tables with significant differences in row counts in one changefeed.
    - The changefeed target tables were large with many ranges.
    - The initial scan took a long time to complete (an hour or longer). [#124454][#124454]

<h3 id="v23-1-22-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- Updated the [`SHOW GRANTS`]({% link v23.1/show-grants.md %}) responses to display the `object_type` and `object_name`, which has replaced the `relation_name` column. [#122718][#122718]
- Added [external connection]({% link v23.1/create-external-connection.md %}) granted privileges to the [`SHOW GRANTS`]({% link v23.1/show-grants.md %}) command. [#122718][#122718]
- Introduced three new [cluster settings]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) for controlling table statistics forecasting:
    - [`sql.stats.forecasts.min_observations`]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) is the minimum number of observed statistics required to produce a forecast.
    - [`sql.stats.forecasts.min_goodness_of_fit`]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) is the minimum R² (goodness of fit) measurement required from all predictive models to use a forecast.
    - [`sql.stats.forecasts.max_decrease`]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) is the most a prediction can decrease, expressed as the minimum ratio of the prediction to the lowest prior observation.  [#122594][#122594]
- Added a new [session setting]({% link v23.1/session-variables.md %}) `optimizer_use_improved_multi_column_selectivity_estimate`, which if enabled, causes the [optimizer]({% link v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.md %}) to use an improved selectivity estimate for multi-column predicates. This setting will default to `true` on v24.2 and later, and `false` on earlier versions. [#123083][#123083]

<h3 id="v23-1-22-command-line-changes">Command-line changes</h3>

- Changed the default `debug compact` maximum compaction concurrency to the number of processors, and added a `--max-concurrency` flag for overriding the new default. [#123070][#123070]

<h3 id="v23-1-22-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug where a [`RESTORE`](../v23.1/restore.html) of a backup that itself contained a table created by the `RESTORE` of a table with an in-progress [`IMPORT INTO`](../v23.1/import-into.html) would fail to restore all rows. [#120542][#120542]
- Fixed a bug where [client certificate authentication]({% link v23.1/authentication.md %}#client-authentication) combined with [identity maps]({% link v23.1/sso-sql.md %}#identity-map-configuration) (`server.identity_map.configuration`) did not work. For the feature to work correctly, the client must specify a valid database user in the [connection string]({% link v23.1/connection-parameters.md %}). [#122747][#122747]
- Fixed a bug where the [row-based execution engine]({% link v23.1/architecture/sql-layer.md %}#query-execution) could drop a [`LIMIT`]({% link v23.1/limit-offset.md %}) clause when there was an [`ORDER BY`]({% link v23.1/order-by.md %}) clause, and the ordering was partially provided by an input operator. For example, this bug could occur with an ordering such as `ORDER BY a, b` when the scanned index was only ordered on column `a`. The impact of this bug was that more rows may have been returned than specified by the `LIMIT` clause. This bug is only present when not using the [vectorized execution engine]({% link v23.1/architecture/sql-layer.md %}#vectorized-query-execution). That is, when running with `SET vectorize = off;`. This bug has existed since CockroachDB v22.1. [#122835][#122835]
- Statistics forecasts of zero rows can cause suboptimal [query plans]({% link v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.md %}). Forecasting will now avoid predicting zero rows for most downward-trending statistics. [#122594][#122594]
- Fixed a bug in the DB Console's [**Custom Chart**]({% link v23.1/ui-custom-chart-debug-page.md %}) tool where store-level metrics were displayed only for the first store ID associated with the node. Now data is displayed for all stores present on a node, and a single time series is shown for each store, rather than an aggregated value for all of the node's stores. This allows finer-grained monitoring of store-level metrics. [#122806][#122806]
- Fixed a bug where a [job]({% link v23.1/show-jobs.md %}) would fail if it reported an out-of-bound progress fraction. The error is now logged and no longer causes the job to fail. [#122963][#122963]
- Fixed a bug where, in certain cases, using virtual tables such as `crdb_internal.system_jobs` could result in the internal error `attempting to append refresh spans after the tracked timestamp has moved forward`. [#123154][#123154]

<h3 id="v23-1-22-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- More efficient [query plans]({% link v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.md %}) are now generated for queries with text similarity filters, for example, `text_col % 'foobar'`. These plans are generated if the `optimizer_use_trigram_similarity_optimization` [session setting]({% link v23.1/set-vars.md %}) is enabled. It is disabled by default. [#122723][#122723]
- The [optimizer]({% link v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.md %}) now costs `distinct-on` operators more accurately. It may produce more efficient query plans in some cases. [#122851][#122851]
- Added a new [session setting]({% link v23.1/session-variables.md %}) `optimizer_use_improved_zigzag_join_costing`. When enabled and when the [cluster setting]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) `enable_zigzag_join` is also enabled, the cost of zigzag joins is updated such that a zigzag join will be chosen over a scan only if it produces fewer rows than a scan. [#123083][#123083]
- Improved the selectivity estimation of multi-column filters when the multi-column distinct count is high. This prevents the [optimizer]({% link v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.md %}) from choosing a bad query plan due to over-estimating the selectivity of a multi-column predicate. [#123083][#123083]
- Improved the efficiency of error handling in the [vectorized execution engine]({% link v23.1/vectorized-execution.md %}) to reduce the CPU overhead of statement timeout handling and reduce the potential for more statement timeouts. [#123503][#123503]

<div class="release-note-contributors" markdown="1">

<h3 id="v23-1-22-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 51 merged PRs by 23 authors.

</div>

[#120542]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/120542
[#122594]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122594
[#122718]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122718
[#122723]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122723
[#122747]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122747
[#122806]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122806
[#122835]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122835
[#122851]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122851
[#122963]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122963
[#123070]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123070
[#123083]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123083
[#123154]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123154
[#123377]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123377
[#123396]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123396
[#123503]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123503
[#124454]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124454
[dc349c389]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/dc349c389
