## v23.1.30

Release Date: December 12, 2024

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v23-1-30-security-updates">Security updates</h3>

- All cluster settings that accept strings are now fully redacted when transmitted as part of CockroachDB's diagnostics telemetry. The transmitted payload includes a record of modified cluster settings and their values when they are not strings. If you previously applied the mitigations in [Technical Advisory 133479]({% link advisories/a133479.md %}), you can safely turn on diagnostic reporting via the `diagnostics.reporting.enabled` cluster setting without leaking sensitive cluster settings values.

<h3 id="v23-1-30-general-changes">General changes</h3>

- `COCKROACH_SKIP_ENABLING_DIAGNOSTIC_REPORTING` is no longer mentioned in the `cockroach demo` command.

<h3 id="v23-1-30-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug where CockroachDB could encounter an internal error `interface conversion: coldata.Column is` in an edge case. The bug was present in v22.2.13+, v23.1.9+, and v23.2+.
- Fixed a bug that caused incorrect `NOT NULL` constraint violation errors on `UPSERT` and `INSERT ... ON CONFLICT ... DO UPDATE` statements when those statements updated an existing row and a subset of columns that did not include a `NOT NULL` column of the table. This bug had been present since at least v20.1.0.
- Fixed an unhandled error that could occur when using `REVOKE ... ON SEQUENCE FROM ... user` on an object that is not a sequence.
- Addressed a panic that could occur inside `CREATE TABLE AS` if sequence builtin expressions had invalid function overloads.
- Previously, when executing queries with index / lookup joins where ordering needed to be maintained, CockroachDB's behavior could lead to increased query latency, potentially by several orders of magnitude. This bug was introduced in v22.2, and is now fixed.
- Fixed a bug where `DROP CASCADE` would occasionally panic with an `un-dropped backref` message on partitioned tables.
- Reduced the duration of partitions in the gossip network when a node crashes. This eliminates false positives in the `ranges.unavailable` metric.
