## v23.1.0-beta.3

Release Date: April 24, 2023

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v23-1-0-beta-3-backward-incompatible-changes">Backward-incompatible changes</h3>

- Previously, if a user specified a [`search_path`]({% link v23.1/sql-name-resolution.md %}#current-schema) in the connection string parameters, it would always be treated as case sensitive. Now, in order to have the schema names in the `search_path` respect case, the user must include double quotes around the name.

<h3 id="v23-1-0-beta-3-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- Statements of type [`SET ...`]({% link v23.1/set-vars.md %}) are no longer displayed on the [Insights page]({% link v23.1/ui-insights-page.md %}).

<h3 id="v23-1-0-beta-3-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- The amount of [replication](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/architecture/replication-layer) traffic in flight from a single [Raft leader](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/architecture/reads-and-writes-overview#architecture-raft-leader) to a follower has been reduced from 256 MB to 32 MB. This reduces the chance of running out of memory during bulk write operations. This can be controlled via the environment variable `COCKROACH_RAFT_MAX_INFLIGHT_BYTES`.

<h3 id="v23-1-0-beta-3-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- When a user activates diagnostics on the [SQL Activity]({% link v23.1/ui-statements-page.md %}#statement-fingerprints-view) page, there is now an option to select the trace rate for statement diagnostics collection.
- Updated the **Network Latency** side navigation name and Network Diagnostics page title to Network. Updated the Advanced Debugging page title to [Advanced Debug]({% link v23.1/ui-debug-pages.md %}).
- Introduced a "draining node" **Node Status** on the [Cluster Overview panel]({% link v23.1/ui-cluster-overview-page.md %}#cluster-overview-panel) so that "draining node" has it own value instead of counting as a "dead node".
- Added a time scale selector to the [**Diagnostics** tab]({% link v23.1/ui-statements-page.md %}#diagnostics) under the Statement Details page. This allows users to view bundles from the selected period only.

<h3 id="v23-1-0-beta-3-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug that caused internal errors when executing [user-defined functions]({% link v23.1/user-defined-functions.md %}) with empty bodies. This bug was only present in alpha pre-release versions of 23.1.
- Fixed a bug that caused a [restore]({% link v23.1/restore.md %}) to fail occasionally due to incorrect schema ID resolution when restoring a [backup]({% link v23.1/backup.md %}) with [user-defined schemas]({% link v23.1/schema-design-schema.md %}).
- Fixed a bug in parsing a [`search_path`]({% link v23.1/sql-name-resolution.md %}#current-schema) with a quote in it when specified in the [connection string]({% link v23.1/connection-parameters.md %}). Also, the `search_path` [session variable]({% link v23.1/set-vars.md %}) now supports schema names that have commas in them.
- Fixed a bug that has existed since [user-defined functions]({% link v23.1/user-defined-functions.md %}) were introduced that could cause a function call to resolve to the wrong function after changes to the [schema search path]({% link v23.1/sql-name-resolution.md %}#current-schema).
- Previously, CockroachDB v23.1 alpha and beta versions would panic on [`cockroach start`]({% link v23.1/cockroach-start.md %}) command when the `GOMEMLIMIT` environment variable was set and the `--max-go-memory` flag wasn't specified. This is now fixed.
- Fixed a bug that caused errors in test builds and potentially incorrect results in release builds when invoking a [user-defined function]({% link v23.1/user-defined-functions.md %}) with a [subquery]({% link v23.1/subqueries.md %}) argument. This bug was only present in v23.1 alpha versions.
- Fixed an internal error that could occur when the `enforce_home_region` [session setting]({% link v23.1/set-vars.md %}) is on and the input to the [lookup join]({% link v23.1/joins.md %}#lookup-joins) is a `SELECT` of [scalar expressions]({% link v23.1/scalar-expressions.md %}) (e.g., `1+1`). Also, [subqueries]({% link v23.1/subqueries.md %}) with no [home region]({% link v23.1/multiregion-overview.md %}#table-localities) now error out with `enforce_home_region` set.
- Point [inserts]({% link v23.1/insert.md %}) and [updates]({% link v23.1/update.md %}) that write to a remote region of a table created with the [`REGIONAL BY ROW AS`]({% link v23.1/create-table.md %}#create-a-table-with-a-regional-by-row-locality-using-a-custom-region-column) clause will now error out.
- Fixed a bug in the [built-in functions]({% link v23.1/functions-and-operators.md %}) `pg_get_indexdef` and `col_description` that could cause the functions to return errors if the user created tables named `pg_indexes` or `pg_attribute`. Or, if the user created a schema named `system` with a table named `comments`. This bug was only present in pre-release versions of v23.1.
- Fixed a bug where, when CockroachDB failed to retrieve [contention information]({% link v23.1/performance-best-practices-overview.md %}#transaction-contention), the full [Insights page]({% link v23.1/ui-insights-page.md %}) would return an error. Now the Insights page will load even when there is an issue with decoding contention information.
- Fixed a bug to ensure that the [list of fingerprints]({% link v23.1/ui-statements-page.md %}#statement-fingerprints-view) used per [index]({% link v23.1/indexes.md %}) is shown even when there is a max-size limit on the SQL API.

<h3 id="v23-1-0-beta-3-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 36 merged PRs by 15 authors.

</div>
