## v23.1.0-alpha.5

Release Date: March 6, 2023

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-5-security-updates">Security updates</h3>

- The new [cluster setting]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) `server.user_login.downgrade_scram_stored_passwords_to_bcrypt.enabled`, which allows you to migrate passwords from SCRAM to bcrypt during user authentication, defaults to `true`. If it is `true` and if `server.user_login.password_encryption` is `crdb-bcrypt`, then during login, the stored hashed password will be migrated from SCRAM to bcrypt.

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-5-general-changes">General changes</h3>

- Users with the `CONTROLJOB` [role option]({% link v23.1/create-role.md %}#role-options) can now [view jobs]({% link v23.1/show-jobs.md %}) owned by admins.
- Users with the `VIEWJOB` [role option]({% link v23.1/create-role.md %}#role-options) can now [view all jobs]({% link v23.1/show-jobs.md %}). This role can be revoked by granting the `NOVIEWJOB` role option.

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-5-{{-site.data.products.enterprise-}}-edition-changes">{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} edition changes</h3>

- Jobs that utilize a protected timestamp system (such as `BACKUP`, `CHANGEFEED`, or `IMPORT`) now produce metrics that can be monitored to detect cases when a job leaves a stale protected timestamp that will prevent garbage collection from occurring.
- [Changefeeds]({% link v23.1/create-changefeed.md %}) now automatically expire protected timestamp records for paused jobs if the changefeed is configured with the `gc_protect_expires_after` option.
- User-defined functions (UDFs) can now be referenced from column [`DEFAULT`]({% link v23.1/default-value.md %}) expressions when creating a new table or issuing the `SET DEFAULT` command. Backup and restore operations also back up and restore UDF IDs that are referenced in a column's DEFAULT expression. If UDF dependencies are missing and the `skip_missing_udfs` flag is provided, the `DEFAULT` expressions are dropped during a restore operation.

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-5-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- String literals are now allowed for region names in DDL syntax, in addition to quoted syntax.
- It is now possible to use `*` inside a [`CREATE VIEW`]({% link v23.1/create-view.md %}) statement. The list of columns is expanded at the time the view is created, so that new columns added after the view was defined are not included in the view. This behavior is the same as in PostgreSQL.
- The default value of `sql.stats.cleanup.rows_to_delete_per_txn` has been increased to `10000` to increase efficiency of the cleanup job for SQL statistics.
- The new [session setting]({% link v23.1/set-vars.md %}) `optimizer_use_improved_split_disjunction_for_joins` allows the optimizer to split disjunctions (`OR` expressions) in more `JOIN` conditions by building a `UNION` of two `JOIN` expressions. If this setting is true, all disjunctions in inner, semi, and anti `JOIN`s will be split. Otherwise, only disjunctions that potentially contain an equijoin condition will be split.
- Builtins have been added for `tsvector`, `to_tsquery`, `phraseto_tsquery`, and `plainto_tsquery`, which parse input documents into tsvectors and tsqueries, respectively. The new `ts_parse` builtin is used to debug the text search parser.
- The new [session variable]({% link v23.1/set-vars.md %}) `inject_retry_errors_on_commit_enabled` returns a [transaction retry error]({% link v23.1/transaction-retry-error-reference.md %}) if it is run inside of an explicit transaction when it is set to `true`. The transaction retry error continues to be returned until `inject_retry_errors_on_commit_enabled` is set to `false`. This setting allows you to test your transaction retry logic.
- Previously, [`ADD PRIMARY KEY NOT VALID`]({% link v23.1/primary-key.md %}) ignored the `NOT VALID` qualifier. This behavior was not compatible with PostgreSQL. CockroachDB now throws the error `PRIMARY KEY constraints cannot be marked NOT VALID`.

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-5-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- The following [cluster settings]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}), which control rebalancing and upreplication behavior in the face of IO-overloaded storage, have been deprecated:
  - `kv.allocator.l0_sublevels_threshold`
  - `kv.allocator.l0_sublevels_threshold_enforce`
  These cluster settings have been replaced by internal mechanisms.

- Max timeout-to-intent resolution has been added to prevent intent resolution from becoming stuck indefinitely and blocking other ranges attempting to resolve intents.
- Nodes are now considered suspect when rejoining a cluster and cannot accept lease transfers for one `server.time_after_store_suspect` window, which defaults to 30 seconds.

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-5-command-line-changes">Command-line changes</h3>

- The SQL shell ([`cockroach sql`]({% link v23.1/cockroach-sql.md %}), [`cockroach demo`]({% link v23.1/cockroach-demo.md %})) now supports the client-side commands `\l`, `\dn`, `\d`, `\di`, `\dm`, `\ds`, `\dt`, `\dv`, `\dC`, `\dT`, `\dd`, `\dg`, `\du` and `\dd` in a similar manner to PostgreSQL, including the modifier flags `S` and `+`, for convenience for users migrating from PostgreSQL. A notable difference is that when a pattern argument is specified, it should use the SQL `LIKE` syntax (with `%` representing the wildcard character) instead of PostgreSQL's glob-like syntax (with `*` representing wildcards).

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-5-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- The following new metrics track memory usage of prepared statements in sessions:
  - `sql.mem.internal.session.prepared.current`
  - `sql.mem.internal.session.prepared.max-avg`
  - `sql.mem.internal.session.prepared.max-count`
  - `sql.mem.internal.session.prepared.max-max`
  - `sql.mem.internal.session.prepared.max-p50`
  - `sql.mem.internal.session.prepared.max-p75`
  - `sql.mem.internal.session.prepared.max-p90`
  - `sql.mem.internal.session.prepared.max-p99`
  - `sql.mem.internal.session.prepared.max-p99.9`
  - `sql.mem.internal.session.prepared.max-p99.99`
  - `sql.mem.internal.session.prepared.max-p99.999`
  - `sql.mem.sql.session.prepared.current`
  - `sql.mem.sql.session.prepared.max-avg`
  - `sql.mem.sql.session.prepared.max-count`
  - `sql.mem.sql.session.prepared.max-max`
  - `sql.mem.sql.session.prepared.max-p50`
  - `sql.mem.sql.session.prepared.max-p75`
  - `sql.mem.sql.session.prepared.max-p90`
  - `sql.mem.sql.session.prepared.max-p99`
  - `sql.mem.sql.session.prepared.max-p99.9`
  - `sql.mem.sql.session.prepared.max-p99.99`
  - `sql.mem.sql.session.prepared.max-p99.999`

   

- Active execution information is now shown on the [Statements page]({% link v23.1/ui-statements-page.md %}) even when there is a max size limit error.
- "Retrying" is no longer a status shown in the [Jobs]({% link v23.1/ui-jobs-page.md %}) page.

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-5-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Transaction uncertainty intervals are now correctly configured for reverse scans, to prevent reverse scans from serving stale reads when clocks in a cluster are skewed.
- The formatting of uniqueness violation errors now matches the corresponding errors from PostgreSQL.
- Previously, when a new column name would require quoting due to mixed-case or special characters, [`ALTER TABLE ... ADD COLUMN`]({% link v23.1/alter-table.md %}#add-column) would not run in an explicit or multi-statement transaction. This is now fixed.
- Fixed a bug when formatting [`CREATE TYPE` statements for user-defined types]({% link v23.1/create-type.md %}) which require quoting which might prevent those statements from round-tripping.
- Using subqueries in user-defined functions without an `AS` clause is now supported, for consistency with the syntax supported outside of user-defined functions.
- Fixed a rare bug introduced before v22.1.x that could cause a projected expression to replace column references with the wrong values.
- Cross-descriptor validation on lease renewal is now disabled, because it can starve [online schema changes]({% link v23.1/online-schema-changes.md %}) when there are many descriptors with many foreign key references.
- Fixed a bug with pagination on the [Insights]({% link v23.1/ui-insights-page.md %}) page.
- Columns referenced in partial index predicates and partial unique constraint predicates can no longer be dropped. The [`ALTER TABLE .. DROP COLUMN`]({% link v23.1/alter-table.md %}#drop-column) statement now returns an error with a suggestion to drop the indexes and constraints first. This is a temporary safeguard to prevent users from hitting. This restriction will be lifted when that bug is fixed.
- The [Jobs]({% link v23.1/ui-jobs-page.md %}) page now displays an error state when an error is encountered during data fetching.
- Fixed a bug introduced in v22.1 that caused the internal error `no bytes in account to release ...`.
- The [`COPY FROM`]({% link v23.1/copy.md %}) command now respects the `statement_timeout` and `transaction_timeout` [cluster settings]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}).
- [`COPY FROM`]({% link v23.1/copy.md %}) commands now appear in the output of the [`SHOW STATEMENTS`]({% link v23.1/show-statements.md %}) command.
- Fixed an error where querying a `pg_catalog` table included information about a temporary table created in another session.

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-5-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- If the [session setting]({% link v23.1/set-vars.md %}) `optimizer_use_improved_split_disjunction_for_joins` is `true`, the optimizer now creates a better query plan in some cases where an inner, semi, or anti join contains a join predicate with a disjuction (`OR` condition).

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-5-miscellaneous">Miscellaneous</h3>

- UDFs can now return the `RECORD` result type, which represents any tuple. For example, `CREATE FUNCTION f() RETURNS RECORD AS 'SELECT * FROM t' LANGUAGE SQL;` is equivalent to `CREATE FUNCTION f() RETURNS t AS 'SELECT * FROM t' LANGUAGE SQL;`.
- The parameters for [delegated snapshots](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/architecture/replication-layer#snapshots) have been marked as internal.
- Fixed an error when calling [`CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION`]({% link v23.1/create-function.md %}) with a [user-defined return type]({% link v23.1/create-type.md %}) if the user-defined type was modified after the original [user-defined function]({% link v23.1/create-function.md %}) was created. The command now succeeds as long as the function body returns output that matches the modified user-defined type.
- Columns with referenced constraints can now be dropped.
- Index cascades with a dependent inbound foreign key can now be dropped.

<div class="release-note-contributors" markdown="1">

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-5-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 120 merged PRs by 51 authors.
We would like to thank the following contributors from the CockroachDB community:

- Eric.Yang (first-time contributor)

</div>
