## v23.1.0-beta.2

Release Date: April 17, 2023

{% include releases/release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v23-1-0-beta-2-{{-site.data.products.enterprise-}}-edition-changes">{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} edition changes</h3>

- [CDC queries](../v23.1/create-changefeed.html) now support wrapped envelope with diff (`envelope='wrapped', diff`). [#101391][#101391]

<h3 id="v23-1-0-beta-2-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- Added the [session variable](../v23.1/set-vars.html#supported-variables) `multiple_active_portals_enabled`. This setting is only for a [preview feature](../v23.1/cockroachdb-feature-availability.html). When set to `true`, it allows multiple portals to be open at the same time, with their execution interleaved with each other. In other words, these portals can be paused. The underlying statement for a pausable portal must be a read-only `[SELECT](../v23.1/selection-queries.html)` query without [sub-queries](../v23.1/subqueries.html) or postqueries (such as executed by [foreign key](../v23.1/foreign-key.html) checks), and such a portal is always executed with a [local query plan](../v23.1/architecture/sql-layer.html#distsql). [#101026][#101026]

<h3 id="v23-1-0-beta-2-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- Update sort label on *Search Criteria* to match the name on the table columns on the [Statements](../v23.1/ui-statements-page.html) and [Transactions](../v23.1/ui-transactions-page.html) pages. [#101126][#101126]
- By default, we now show the `Application Name` column in the fingerprints overview pages. [Statement fingerprints](../v23.1/ui-statements-page.html#statement-fingerprints-view) and [Transaction fingerprints](../v23.1/ui-transactions-page.html#transaction-fingerprints-view) will be displayed per application on the overview pages rather than grouped into a single fingerprint ID. [#101235][#101235]
- When going from the Fingerprint Overview pages or the Insight Details pages to the Fingerprint Details page for [statements](../v23.1/ui-statements-page.html#statement-fingerprints-view) or [transactions](../v23.1/ui-transactions-page.html#transaction-fingerprints-view), the details page will fetch data for the statement with the provided application name. For overview pages, this is the app name of the selected row. For insight details, it is the app of the execution that generated the insight. [#101235][#101235]

<h3 id="v23-1-0-beta-2-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug so that the text search `@@` [operator](../v23.1/functions-and-operators.html) ("matches") can work with variable expressions. Fixed a bug where incorrect results were returned when one of the arguments was a [`TEXT`](../v23.1/string.html) expression and the other argument was a `TEXT` or `TSQuery` expression. [#100918][#100918]
- Fixed a bug where running [`DROP COLUMN ... CASCADE`](../v23.1/alter-table.html#drop-column) when that column is used in an [index](../v23.1/indexes.html) that includes other columns caused a panic. [#100856][#100856]
- Fixed a rare race condition on [node startup](../v23.1/cockroach-start.html) that could cause an `invalid memory address or nil pointer dereference` error. [#100626][#100626]
- Fixed a bug that was causing nodes running on Windows to crash on startup. This bug only existed in v23.1 alphas. [#101091][#101091]
- Fixed a rare condition that could allow a [transaction](../v23.1/transactions.html) to get stuck indefinitely waiting on a released row-level [lock](../v23.1/architecture/transaction-layer.html#concurrency-control) if the per-range lock count limit was exceeded while the transaction was waiting on another lock. [#100946][#100946]
- Fixed a rare internal error in the [optimizer](../v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.html) that has existed since before version v22.1, which could occur while enforcing orderings between SQL operators. [#101355][#101355]
- Fixed a bug so that the `crdb_internal.deserialize_session` internal function works properly with prepared statements that have more param type hints than params. Before this bugfix, deserializing a [session](../v23.1/show-sessions.html) containing a prepared statement with more parameter type hints than parameters would panic. For example: `PREPARE p (int) AS SELECT 1`. These extra type hints are now ignored by `crdb_internal.deserialize_session`. [#101368][#101368]

<h3 id="v23-1-0-beta-2-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- Pubsub sink [changefeeds](../v23.1/create-changefeed.html) can now support higher throughputs by enabling the `changefeed.new_pubsub_sink_enabled` [cluster setting](../v23.1/cluster-settings.html). [#100930][#100930]

<div class="release-note-contributors" markdown="1">

<h3 id="v23-1-0-beta-2-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 57 merged PRs by 29 authors.

</div>

[#100626]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/100626
[#100856]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/100856
[#100918]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/100918
[#100930]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/100930
[#100946]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/100946
[#101026]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/101026
[#101091]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/101091
[#101126]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/101126
[#101235]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/101235
[#101355]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/101355
[#101368]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/101368
[#101391]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/101391
