## v23.1.0-alpha.7

Release Date: March 20, 2023

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-7-security-updates">Security updates</h3>

- The default value for the `server.user_login.password_hashes.default_cost.scram_sha_256` [cluster setting]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) is now 10610. (Previously the default was 119680.) The old value was found to have been too high for many types of client hardware, and in some cases could cause regressions in connection latency. The new value was chosen by running tests with clients that have 1 or 2 vCPUs provisioned. Additionally, the new cluster setting `server.user_login.rehash_scram_stored_passwords_on_cost_change.enabled` was added, and defaults to `true`. If it is `true` and the stored SCRAM password for a user has a different cost than the configured default cost, then the next time the user logs in, their password will automatically be rehashed using the configured default cost. If the rehashing is not desired, then operators should update the `server.user_login.password_hashes.default_cost.scram_sha_256` cluster setting to the value they desire before upgrading. This change is being backported to [v22.2]({% link releases/v22.2.md %}). [#98254][#98254]

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-7-general-changes">General changes</h3>

- CockroachDB now uses the soft memory limit of Go runtime by default. This feature of Go has been available since v22.2 by setting the `GOMEMLIMIT` environment variable. Now it is enabled by default, which should reduce the likelihood of the CockroachDB process [OOMing]({% link v23.1/cluster-setup-troubleshooting.md %}#out-of-memory-oom-crash). This soft memory limit can be disabled by specifying `--max-go-memory=0` to [`cockroach start`]({% link v23.1/cockroach-start.md %}). [#97666][#97666]
- Previously, the output of [`SHOW CHANGEFEED JOBS`]({% link v23.1/show-jobs.md %}#show-changefeed-jobs) was limited to show unfinished jobs and finished jobs from the last 14 days. This change makes the command show all changefeed jobs, regardless of if they finished and when they finished. Note that jobs still obey the [cluster setting]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}#setting-jobs-retention-time) `jobs.retention_time`. Completed jobs older than that time are deleted. Fixes: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/issues/97883  [#98175][#98175]

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-7-{{-site.data.products.enterprise-}}-edition-changes">{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} edition changes</h3>

- Sinkless [changefeeds]({% link v23.1/create-changefeed.md %}) that use the [`AS SELECT`]({% link v23.1/selection-queries.md %}) syntax now require an enterprise license. [#98241][#98241]
- [External connections]({% link v23.1/create-external-connection.md %}) can now be used as the URI value for a Confluent schema registry. For example, `CREATE EXTERNAL CONNECTION reg AS "https://example.cloud?opt=val"; CREATE CHANGEFEED FOR foo WITH format='avro',confluent_schema_registry='external://reg'` [#97140][#97140]
- [Backup schedules]({% link v23.1/create-schedule-for-backup.md %}) created or altered to have the option `on_previous_running` will have the full backup schedule created with the user specified option, but will override the incremental backup schedule to always default to `on_previous_running = wait`. This ensures correctness of the backup chains created by the incremental schedule by preventing duplicate incremental jobs from racing against each other. [#98249][#98249]
- [Changefeeds]({% link v23.1/changefeed-sinks.md %}#kafka) to a Kafka sink now support the `OAUTHBEARER` `sasl_mechanism`. [#98053][#98053]
- [Changefeeds]({% link v23.1/changefeed-examples.md %}) running with the `changefeed.mux_rangefeed.enabled` [cluster setting]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) set to `true` are more efficient, particularly when executing against large tables. [#96756][#96756]

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-7-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- A regions field was added to the `statistics` column of [`crdb_internal.statement_statistics`](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/crdb-internal#statement_statistics), reporting the [regions]({% link v23.1/show-regions.md %}) of the nodes on which the statement was executed. [#95449][#95449]
- The `enforce_home_region` [session setting]({% link v23.1/set-vars.md %}#enforce-home-region) was extended with a new optional preview feature and session setting, which is disabled by default, to dynamically detect and report the home region for [`SELECT`]({% link v23.1/selection-queries.md %}) queries based on the [locality]({% link v23.1/show-locality.md %}) of the queried rows, if different from the region of the [gateway node]({% link v23.1/ui-sessions-page.md %}#session-details-gateway-node). [cockroachdb/cockroach#97827][#97827]
- Added a URL to errors related to the `enforce_home_region` [session setting]({% link v23.1/set-vars.md %}#enforce-home-region) that users can view to see additional information about the error. [#97827][#97827]
- Added a new [session setting]({% link v23.1/set-vars.md %}) `enforce_home_region_follower_reads_enabled` as a preview feature to allow errors triggered by the `enforce_home_region` [session setting]({% link v23.1/set-vars.md %}#enforce-home-region) to perform reads using [`AS OF SYSTEM TIME follower_read_timestamp()`]({% link v23.1/follower-reads.md %}) in order to find and report a query's [home region]({% link v23.1/multiregion-overview.md %}#table-localities). [#97827][#97827]
- Added a new aggregate [builtin function]({% link v23.1/functions-and-operators.md %}#array-functions) `array_cat_agg`. It behaves similarly to `array_agg(unnest(array_column))`: it takes arrays as its input, unnests them into the array elements which are then aggregated into a single result array. It's similar to concatenating all input arrays into a single array. [#97826][#97826]
- Added a new [session setting]({% link v23.1/set-vars.md %}) `optimizer_always_use_histograms`, which ensures that the [optimizer]({% link v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.md %}) always uses histograms when available to calculate the [statistics]({% link v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.md %}#table-statistics) of every plan that it explores. Enabling this setting can prevent the optimizer from choosing a suboptimal [index]({% link v23.1/indexes.md %}) when statistics for a table are stale. [#98194][#98194]
- Added the `MODIFYSQLCLUSTERSETTING` [system privilege](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/security-reference/authorization#supported-privileges). This privilege allows users the ability to view all [cluster settings]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}), but only modify those settings with the `sql.defaults.*` prefix.  This re-introduces the modify functionality seen with `MODIFYCLUSTERSETTING` CockroachDB [v22.2]({% link releases/v22.2.md %}). [#97521][#97521]
- Added a `status` column to the following [`crdb_internal`](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/crdb-internal#) virtual tables: `crdb_internal.cluster_txn_execution_insights` and `crdb_internal.node_txn_execution_insights`. [cockroachdb/cockroach#98217][#98217]
- Added a new session variable `allow_role_memberships_to_change_during_transaction`  which can be used to make the [granting]({% link v23.1/grant.md %}) and [revoking]({% link v23.1/revoke.md %}) of [role memberships](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/security-reference/authorization#roles) faster at the cost of some [isolation](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/architecture/transaction-layer#isolation-levels) claims. By default, when granting or revoking a role from another role, CockroachDB waits for all [transactions]({% link v23.1/transactions.md %}) that are consulting the current set of role memberships to complete. This means that by the time the transaction which performed the grant or revoke operation returns successfully, the user has a proof that no ongoing transaction is relying on the state that existed prior to the change. The downside of this waiting is that it means that `GRANT` and `REVOKE` will take longer than the longest currently executing transaction. In some cases, users do not care about whether concurrent transactions will immediately see the side-effects of the operation, and would instead prefer that the grant or revoke finish rapidly. In order to aid in those cases, the session variable `allow_role_memberships_to_change_during_transaction` has been added. Now, the grant or revoke will only need to wait for the completion of statements in [sessions]({% link v23.1/show-sessions.md %}) which do not have this option set. One can set the option as enabled by default in all sessions in order to accelerate and grant and revoke role operations. [#98370][#98370]
- Fixed a bug where CockroachDB panicked when a user tried to [truncate a table]({% link v23.1/truncate.md %}) which had an ongoing [Row-level TTL]({% link v23.1/row-level-ttl.md %}) change. CockroachDB still does not support truncating a table in this scenario, but instead of panicking an "unimplemented" error is returned. [#98537][#98537]

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-7-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- [Range leases]({% link v23.1/architecture/overview.md %}#architecture-leaseholder) will no longer be transferred to [stores]({% link v23.1/cockroach-start.md %}#store) which are IO overloaded. [#97587][#97587]
- The environment variable `COCKROACH_IGNORE_CLUSTER_SETTINGS` can be used to [start a node]({% link v23.1/cockroach-start.md %}) so that it ignores all stored [cluster setting]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) values in an emergency. [#97805][#97805]
- Introduce two [cluster settings]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) to control disk utilization thresholds for [replica allocation](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/architecture/replication-layer): `kv.allocator.rebalance_to_max_disk_utilization_threshold`, which controls the maximum disk utilization before a store will never be used as a rebalance target, and `kv.allocator.max_disk_utilization_threshold`, which controls maximum disk utilization before a store will never be used as a rebalance or allocation target _and_ will actively have [replicas](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/architecture/overview#architecture-replica) moved off of it. [#97409][#97409]
- The [cluster setting]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) `kv.trace.slow_request_stacks.threshold` can be used to attach available stack history from [tracer snapshots]({% link v23.1/show-trace.md %}) to traces of [slow requests](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/logging#sql_perf). [#97895][#97895]
- Added a new [metric]({% link v23.1/metrics.md %}) `changefeed.schema_registry.retry_count`. This measures the number of request retries performed when sending requests to the [changefeed schema registry]({% link v23.1/changefeed-examples.md %}). Observing a nonzero value may indicate improper configuration of the schema registry or changefeed parameters. [#98338][#98338]
- The `kv.range_split.load_cpu_threshold` [cluster setting]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}#setting-kv-range-split-load-cpu-threshold) now has a minimum setting value of `10ms`. [#98250][#98250]
- The `kv.allocator.lease_io_overload_threshold_enforcement` [cluster setting]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) value which disables enforcement is updated to be spelled correctly as "ignore" rather than "ingore". [cockroachdb/cockroach#98543][#98543]
- The [range lease](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/architecture/overview#architecture-leaseholder) duration can now be adjusted via the environment variable `COCKROACH_RANGE_LEASE_DURATION`. Users are advised to exercise caution when adjusting this, and consider the relationship with e.g. [Raft](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/architecture/replication-layer#raft) election timeouts and network timeouts. [#98616][#98616]

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-7-command-line-changes">Command-line changes</h3>

- [`cockroach sql`]({% link v23.1/cockroach-sql.md %}) and [`cockroach demo`]({% link v23.1/cockroach-demo.md %}) now support the client-side command `\s` to display the previous command history. [#98035][#98035]
- Added a new flag `--max-go-memory` to the [`cockroach start`]({% link v23.1/cockroach-start.md %}) command. It controls the soft memory limit on the Go runtime which adjusts the behavior of the Go garbage collector to try keeping the memory usage under the soft memory limit (the limit is "soft" in a sense that it is not enforced if live objects (RSS) exceed it). Similar to the [`--max-sql-memory` flag]({% link v23.1/cockroach-start.md %}), the new flag `--max-go-memory` accepts numbers interpreted as bytes, size suffixes (e.g. `1GB` and `1GiB`) or a percentage of physical memory (e.g. `.25`). If left unspecified, the flag defaults to 2.25x of `--max-sql-memory` (subject to `--max-go-memory + 1.15 x --cache` not exceeding 90% of available RAM). Set to `0` to disable the soft memory limit (not recommended). If the `GOMEMLIMIT` env var is set and `--max-go-memory` is not, then the value from the env var is used; if both are set, then the flag takes precedence. [#97666][#97666]
  - Here are a few examples of how the default value is calculated on a machine with 16GiB of RAM. In the first two lines we use the default formula `2.25x --max-sql-memory`. In the third line, the default formula results in exceeding the upper bound on total usage (including the cache), so we use the upper bound determined as `0.9 * total RAM - 1.15 * cache size`. In the fourth line, the default formula results in 225MiB which is smaller than the lower bound of 256MiB, so we bump the value to that lower bound. In the fifth line, we use the value specified by the user (even though it is smaller than the lower bound on the default value).

    | Command line flags                                    | Computed max SQL memory | Computed cache size | Computed max Go memory |
    |-------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------+---------------------+------------------------|
    | --max-sql-memory=.25 --cache=.25                      | 4GiB                    | 4GiB                | 9GiB                   |
    | --max-sql-memory=.1 --cache=.5                        | 1.6GiB                  | 8GiB                | 3.6GiB                 |
    | --max-sql-memory=.25 --cache=.4                       | 4GiB                    | 6.4GiB              | 7.04GiB                |
    | --max-sql-memory=100MiB                               | 100MiB                  | 128MiB              | 256MiB                 |
    | --max-sql-memory=.4 --cache=.2 --max-go-memory=100MiB | 6.4GiB                  | 3.2GiB              | 100MiB                 |

- The `--drain-wait` argument to the [`cockroach node drain`]({% link v23.1/cockroach-node.md %}) command will be automatically increased if the command detects that it is smaller than the sum of the [cluster settings]({% link v23.1/node-shutdown.md %}#cluster-settings) `server.shutdown.drain_wait`, `server.shutdown.connection_wait`, `server.shutdown.query_wait` times two, and `server.shutdown.lease_transfer_wait`. If the `--drain-wait` argument is 0, then no timeout is used. This recommendation [was already documented]({% link v23.1/node-shutdown.md %}#drain-timeout), but now the advice will be applied automatically. [#98390][#98390]

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-7-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- Fixed the error `Cannot read properties of undefined (reading 'length')` which could cause [DB Console]({% link v23.1/ui-overview.md %}) pages to fail to load. [#98222][#98222]
- Added a new metric to the [Hardware dashboard]({% link v23.1/ui-hardware-dashboard.md %}) showing the system-wide CPU usage in addition to the existing CockroachDB CPU usage. [#98187][#98187]
- Users will see an upgrade error message when a response from the SQL-over-HTTP API (from `/api/v2/sql/`) says that a relation or column does not exist. [cockroachdb/cockroach#98312][#98312]
- The description of the average QPS graph in the [Replication Metrics Dashboard]({% link v23.1/ui-replication-dashboard.md %}) no longer claims the average is exponentially weighted. [#98270][#98270]
- The metric `rebalancing.cpunanospersecond` is now included in the [Replication Metrics Dashboard]({% link v23.1/ui-replication-dashboard.md %}). [#98270][#98270]
- Added an  error code column to the insights table for a failed execution to the statement and transaction detail views on the [Insights Page]({% link v23.1/ui-insights-page.md %}). Added a status column to the statement and transaction workload insights tables on the [Insights Page]({% link v23.1/ui-insights-page.md %}). [cockroachdb/cockroach#97138][#97138]

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-7-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- RPC connections between nodes now require RPC connections to be established in both directions, otherwise the connection will be closed. This is done to prevent asymmetric network partitions where nodes are able to send outbound messages but not receive inbound messages, which could result in persistent unavailability. This behavior can be disabled by the [cluster setting]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) `rpc.dialback.enabled`. [#94778][#94778]
- The owner of the public schema can now be changed using [`ALTER SCHEMA public OWNER TO new_owner`]({% link v23.1/alter-schema.md %}). [#98000][#98000]
- Fixed a bug in which [common table expressions]({% link v23.1/common-table-expressions.md %}) (CTEs) marked as `WITH RECURSIVE` which were not actually recursive could return incorrect results. This could happen if the CTE used a `UNION ALL`, because the [optimizer]({% link v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.md %}) incorrectly converted the `UNION ALL` to a `UNION`. This bug had existed since support for recursive CTEs was first added in v20.1. [#98042][#98042]
- Internal queries that are executed in order to serve a client-initiated query already appeared in [statistics]({% link v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.md %}#table-statistics) with an `application_name` prefixed by the string `$$`. But this name was not used in the output of [`SHOW QUERIES`]({% link v23.1/show-statements.md %}). Now, `SHOW QUERIES` also shows the `$$` prefix for these types of queries.
- Fixed a bug in evaluation of `ANY`, `SOME`, and `ALL` [sub-operators]({% link v23.1/functions-and-operators.md %}#operators) that would cause expressions like `NULL = ANY(ARRAY[]::INT[])` to return `NULL` instead of `False`. [cockroachdb/cockroach#97948][#97948]
- Fixed a bug that could crash the process when a query contained a literal [tuple expression]({% link v23.1/scalar-expressions.md %}#tuple-constructors) with more than two elements and only a single label, e.g., `((1, 2, 3) AS foo)`. [#98142][#98142]
- Fixed a bug where certain special character combinations in the [`options` field in connection URLs]({% link v23.1/connection-parameters.md %}#supported-options-parameters) were not properly supported by CockroachDB. [#98302][#98302]
- Fixed a bug where the stats columns on the [Transaction Fingerprints overview page]({% link v23.1/ui-transactions-page.md %}#transaction-fingerprints-view) was continuously incrementing. The fix was to ensure we don't re-use the stats object between re-renders by creating a new copy of the stats for every aggregation. [cockroachdb/cockroach#98307][#98307]
- Fixed a bug where [transactions]({% link v23.1/transactions.md %}) that performed a [`SELECT FOR UPDATE`]({% link v23.1/select-for-update.md %}) across multiple [ranges](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/architecture/overview#architecture-range) but never performed writes could fail to eagerly clean up their [locks](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/architecture/transaction-layer#writing) after commit. Future transactions that encountered these abandoned locks could be delayed for 50ms before unlocking them. [#98044][#98044]
- Fixed a bug which could result in some [`CREATE INDEX`]({% link v23.1/create-index.md %}) statements to fail with the error `failed to verify keys for Scan`. [#98262][#98262]
- Fixed a bug where CockroachDB could encounter an internal error `concurrent txn use detected`. The bug was introduced in [v22.2.0]({% link releases/v22.2.md %}). [#98120][#98120]
- Fixed a bug where if an [`UPDATE`]({% link v23.1/update.md %}) was performed during an on-going [`ADD COLUMN`]({% link v23.1/alter-table.md %}#add-column) or [`DROP COLUMN`]({% link v23.1/alter-table.md %}#drop-column) on a table, the update could incorrectly fail due to a duplicate key error. [#98354][#98354]
- Fixed a bug where it was possible for CockroachDB to temporarily not respect [zone configurations]({% link v23.1/configure-replication-zones.md %}) other than [the default zone config]({% link v23.1/configure-replication-zones.md %}#view-the-default-replication-zone). This could only happen for a short window of a few seconds after nodes with existing [replicas](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/architecture/overview#architecture-replica) were [restarted]({% link v23.1/cockroach-start.md %}), and self-rectified (also within seconds).  [#98422][#98422]
  - This manifested in a few ways:
    - If [`num_replicas`](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/configure-replication-zones#num_replicas) was set to something other than 3, we would still add or remove replicas to get to 3x replication.
    - If [`num_voters`](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/configure-replication-zones#num_voters) was set explicitly to get a mix of voting and [non-voting replicas](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/architecture/replication-layer#non-voting-replicas), it would be ignored. CockroachDB could possibly even remove non-voting replicas.
    - If [`range_min_bytes`]({% link v23.1/configure-replication-zones.md %}#range-min-bytes) or [`range_max_bytes`]({% link v23.1/configure-replication-zones.md %}#range-max-bytes) were changed from their default values of 128 MiB and 512 MiB respectively, we would instead try to size ranges to be within [128 MiB, 512MiB]. This could appear as an excess amount of [range splits](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/architecture/distribution-layer#range-splits) or [merges](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/architecture/distribution-layer#range-merges), as visible in the [Replication Dashboard]({% link v23.1/ui-replication-dashboard.md %}) under "Range Operations".
    - If [`gc.ttlseconds`]({% link v23.1/configure-replication-zones.md %}#gc-ttlseconds) was set to something other than the default 90000 seconds (25h), we would still only GC data older than 90000s. If the GC TTL was set to something larger than 25h, [`AS OF SYSTEM TIME`]({% link v23.1/as-of-system-time.md %}) queries going further back could start failing. For GC TTLs less than the default, clusters would observe increased disk usage due to more retained [MVCC garbage]({% link v23.1/performance-recipes.md %}#too-many-mvcc-values).
    - If [`constraints`]({% link v23.1/configure-replication-zones.md %}#constraints), [`lease_preferences`](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/configure-replication-zones#lease_preferences) or [`voter_constraints`](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/configure-replication-zones#voter_constraints) were set, they would be ignored. Range data and [leases](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/architecture/glossary#architecture-leaseholder) would possibly be moved outside where prescribed.
- Allow users with the `VIEWACTIVITY`/`VIEWACTIVITYREDACTED` [permissions](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/security-reference/authorization#role-options) to access the [`crdb_internal.ranges_no_leases`]({% link v23.1/crdb-internal.md %}) table, necessary to view important DB Console pages (specifically, the [Databases Page]({% link v23.1/ui-databases-page.md %}), including database details, and database tables). [#98535][#98535]
- Fixed a bug that caused incorrect results when comparisons of [tuples]({% link v23.1/scalar-expressions.md %}#tuple-constructors) were done using the `ANY` [operator]({% link v23.1/functions-and-operators.md %}#operators). For example, an expression like <code>(x, y) = ANY (<a href="https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/selection-queries">SELECT</a> a, b FROM t WHERE ...)</code> could return `true` instead of the correct result of `NULL` when `x` and `y` were `NULL`, or `a` and `b` were `NULL`. This could only occur if the [subquery was correlated]({% link v23.1/subqueries.md %}#correlated-subqueries), i.e., it references columns from the outer part of the query. This bug was present since the [cost-based optimizer]({% link v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.md %}) was introduced in [v2.1]({% link releases/v2.1.md %}). [#98700][#98700]

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-7-miscellaneous">Miscellaneous</h3>

- Added two views to the [`crdb_internal`]({% link v23.1/crdb-internal.md %}) catalog: `crdb_internal.statement_statistics_persisted`, which surfaces data in the persisted `system.statement_statistics` table, and `crdb_internal.transaction_statistics_persisted`, which surfaces the `system.transaction_statistics` table. [cockroachdb/cockroach#98261][#98261]

<div class="release-note-contributors" markdown="1">

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-7-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 245 merged PRs by 65 authors.

</div>

[#94778]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/94778
[#95449]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/95449
[#96449]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/96449
[#96756]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/96756
[#97138]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/97138
[#97140]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/97140
[#97409]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/97409
[#97521]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/97521
[#97569]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/97569
[#97587]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/97587
[#97666]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/97666
[#97805]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/97805
[#97826]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/97826
[#97827]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/97827
[#97895]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/97895
[#97948]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/97948
[#97991]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/97991
[#97995]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/97995
[#98000]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98000
[#98035]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98035
[#98042]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98042
[#98044]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98044
[#98053]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98053
[#98060]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98060
[#98092]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98092
[#98120]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98120
[#98135]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98135
[#98142]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98142
[#98175]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98175
[#98186]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98186
[#98187]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98187
[#98194]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98194
[#98217]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98217
[#98222]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98222
[#98241]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98241
[#98249]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98249
[#98250]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98250
[#98254]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98254
[#98261]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98261
[#98262]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98262
[#98270]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98270
[#98302]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98302
[#98307]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98307
[#98312]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98312
[#98338]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98338
[#98354]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98354
[#98370]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98370
[#98390]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98390
[#98403]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98403
[#98422]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98422
[#98445]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98445
[#98535]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98535
[#98537]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98537
[#98543]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98543
[#98616]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98616
[#98700]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/98700
