## v23.1.0-alpha.2

Release Date: February 13, 2022

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-2-backward-incompatible-changes">Backward-incompatible changes</h3>

- CockroachDB now supports sharing storage ranges across multiple indexes/tables. As a result, there is no longer a guarantee that there is at most one SQL object (e.g., table/index/sequence/materialized view) per storage range.  Therefore, the columns `table_id`, `database_name`, `schema_name`, `table_name` and `index_name` in `crdb_internal.ranges` and `.ranges_no_leases` have become nonsensical: a range cannot be attributed to a single table/index anymore.  As a result:

   - The aforementioned columns in the `crdb_internal` virtual tables have been removed. Existing code can use the [`SHOW RANGES`]({% link v23.1/show-ranges.md %}) statement instead, optionally using `WITH KEYS` to expose the raw start/end keys.
   - `SHOW RANGES FROM DATABASE` continues to report one row per range, but stops returning the database / schema / table / index name.
   - `SHOW RANGES FROM TABLE` continues to report one row per range, but stops returning the index name.  Suggested replacements:
      - Instead of: `SELECT range_id FROM crdb_internal.ranges WHERE table_name = 'x'`, use: `SELECT range_id FROM [SHOW RANGES FROM TABLE x]`
      - Instead of `SELECT range_id FROM crdb_internal.ranges WHERE table_name = $1 OR table_id = $2` (variable / unpredictable table name or ID), use: `SELECT range_id FROM [SHOW RANGES FROM CURRENT_CATALOG WITH TABLES] WHERE table_name = $1 OR table_id = $2`
      - Instead of `SELECT start_key FROM crdb_internal.ranges WHERE table_name = 'x'`, use: `SELECT raw_start_key FROM [SHOW RANGES FROM TABLE x WITH KEYS]`
      - Instead of `SELECT start_key FROM crdb_internal.ranges WHERE table_name = $1 OR table_id = $2` (unpredictable / variable table name or ID), use: `SELECT raw_start_key FROM [SHOW RANGES FROM CURRENT_CATALOG WITH TABLES, KEYS] WHERE table_name = $1 OR table_id = $2`
- The format of the columns `start_key` and `end_key` for `SHOW RANGES FROM DATABASE` and `SHOW RANGES FROM TABLE` have been extended to include which table/index the key belongs to. This is necessary because a range can now contain data from more than one table/index.
- The format of the columns `start_key` and `end_key` for `SHOW RANGE ... FOR ROW` has been changed to be consistent with the output of `SHOW RANGES FROM INDEX`.
- The output of [`SHOW RANGES`]({% link v23.1/show-ranges.md %}) no longer includes `range_size`, `range_size_mb`, `lease_holder`, or `lease_holder_localities` by default. This ensures that `SHOW RANGES` remains fast in the common case. Use the new option `WITH DETAILS` to include these columns.
- Changefeeds using "preview" expressions (released in v22.2.0) and that access the previous state of the row using the `cdc_prev()` function will no longer work and will need to be recreated with new syntax.
- Fixed a bug where, when `server.identity_map.configuration` was used, CockroachDB did not verify the client-provided username against the target mappings. Note that **this means that the client must now provide a valid DB username.** This requirement is compatible with PostgreSQL; it was not previously required by CockroachDB but it is now. This does not apply when identity maps are not in use.
- Previously, the type of the `replicas`, `voting_replicas`,`non_voting_replicas` and `learner_replicas` in `crdb_internal.ranges` were overridden to `INT2VECTOR` causing incompatible indexing between `.ranges` and `.ranges_no_leases`. Now the types of those columns in the two tables are set to `INT[]`.

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-2-security-updates">Security updates</h3>

- Added an option to re-enable "old" cipher suites for use with very old clients. Fixes [issue #1989](https://github.com/cockroachlabs/support/issues/1989).
- Previously, the `ENCRYPTION_PASSPHRASE` option passed to [`RESTORE`]({% link v23.1/restore.md %}) would appear as 'redacted'. It now appears as '******' which is consistent with [`SHOW BACKUP`]({% link v23.1/show-backup.md %}) and [`BACKUP`]({% link v23.1/backup.md %}).

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-2-general-changes">General changes</h3>

The [garbage collection TTL]({% link v23.1/configure-replication-zones.md %}#replication-zone-variables) previously defaulted to `25h`. This value was configurable using `ALTER RANGE DEFAULT CONFIGURE ZONE USING gc.ttlseconds = <value>`, but it was also possible to scope to specific schema objects using `ALTER {DATABASE,TABLE,INDEX} CONFIGURE ZONE USING ...`. The GC TTL value determined how long overwritten values were retained before being garbage collected.

With CockroachDB v23.1, the `RANGE DEFAULT` value is lowered to `4h` but only for freshly created clusters. When existing clusters upgrade to this release, CockroachDB will respect whatever value was in use before the upgrade for all schema objects. This value will therefore be `25h` if the GC TTL was never altered, or some specific value if the GC TTL had been set explicitly. Full cluster backups taken on earlier version clusters, when restored to clusters that started off at v23.1, will use the GC TTL recorded in the backup image.

Cockroach Labs has found the `25h` value to translate to higher-than-necessary storage costs, especially for workloads where rows are deleted frequently. It can also make for costlier reads with respect to CPU since we currently have to scan over overwritten values to get to the one of interest. Finally, we've also observed cluster instability due to large unsplittable ranges that have accumulated an excessive amount of MVCC garbage.

We chose a default of `25h` originally to accommodate daily incremental backups with revision history. But with the introduction of scheduled backups introduced in v22.2, we no longer need a large GC TTL. Scheduled backups "chain together" and prevent garbage collection of relevant data to ensure coverage of revision history across backups, decoupling it from whatever value is used for GC TTL. The GC TTL determines how far back `AS OF SYSTEM TIME` queries can go, which now if going past `now()-4h`, will start failing informatively. To support larger windows for `AS OF SYSTEM TIME` queries, users are encouraged to pick a more appropriate GC TTL and set it using `ALTER ... CONFIGURE ZONE using gc.ttlseconds = <value>`. The earlier considerations around storage use, read costs, and stability still apply.

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-2-{{-site.data.products.enterprise-}}-edition-changes">{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} edition changes</h3>

- The `changefeed.active_protected_timestamps.enabled` [[cluster setting]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %})]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) has been removed and is now always treated as if it was `true`.
- Improved [changefeed expressions]({% link v23.1/cdc-queries.md %}) logic to rely on the optimizer to evaluate star expansion.
- Changefeed expressions now support system columns.
- Changefeed expressions now have access to the `cdc_prev` tuple which contains the previous state of the row.
- Changefeed expressions now support non-volatile user defined functions (UDFs).
- Changefeed transformations (e.g., `CREATE CHANGEFEED ... AS SELECT ...`) no longer require the `schema_change_policy=stop` option.
- Changefeed transformations introduced in the v22.2 release in preview mode are no longer experimental. This feature can now be considered to be fully production-ready.
- The [`CREATE EXTERNAL CONNECTION`]({% link v23.1/create-external-connection.md %}) statement now supports URIs with the prefixes `azure`, `gs`, `gcpubsub`, `http`, `https`, `webhook-https`, `nodelocal`, `s3`, and `kafka` for use by changefeeds.
- The `CONTROLCHANGEFEED` [role option]({% link v23.1/alter-role.md %}#role-options) will be deprecated in the future (see issue). With this change, usages of the `CONTROLCHANGEFEED` role option will come with a deprecation warning. Its existing behavior remains the same. The `SELECT` and `CHANGEFEED` privileges will be used for changefeeds henceforth:
   - The `SELECT` privilege on a set of tables allows a user to run core changefeeds against them.
   - The `CHANGEFEED` privilege on a set of tables allows a user to run enterprise changefeeds on them, and also manage the underlying changefeed job (ie. view, pause, cancel, and resume the job).
   Notably, a new [cluster setting]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) `changefeed.permissions.require_external_connection_sink.enabled` is added and set to `false` by default. Enabling this setting restricts users with `CHANGEFEED` on a set of tables to create enterprise changefeeds into external connections only. To use a given external connection, a user typically needs the `USAGE` privilege on it.  Note that `ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGES` can be used with both the `CHANGEFEED` and `SELECT` privileges to assign coarse-grained permissions (i.e., assign permissions to all tables in a schema rather than manually assign them for each table).
- Changefeeds created/altered with a `metrics_label` set while `server.child_metrics.enabled` is set to `false` will now provide the user a notice upon creation.
- Fix a bug in [`ALTER CHANGEFEED`]({% link v23.1/alter-changefeed.md %}) that would panic when altering changefeeds to remove a table that has already been dropped.
- Reduced the default size of scan RPC replies to improve cluster stability during changefeed accounting for transient memory.
- Changefeed expressions now support the `changefeed_created_timestamp` function.
- Increased the default `changefeed.memory.per_changefeed_limit` [cluster setting]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) to `1/2GiB`. This should result in changefeeds being able to produce larger files.
- The `confluent_schema_registry` URI for avro changefeeds now supports `client_cert` and `client_key` parameters.

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-2-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- Added the `pg_get_function_arguments` [built-in function]({% link v23.1/functions-and-operators.md %}). This returns the argument list (with defaults) necessary to identify the function with a given OID.
- Added `voting_replicas` and `non_voting_replicas` columns to the output of `SHOW RANGE` and `SHOW RANGES` statements.
- It is now possible to create and alter [`NOT VISIBLE`]({% link v23.1/create-table.md %}#not-visible-property) indexes using the alias `INVISIBLE`. The alias can be used anywhere `NOT VISIBLE` is used when creating or altering indexes. NOTE: the `INVISIBLE` alias is **not supported** for `NOT VISIBLE` columns.
- The `system.table_statistics` table now contains a column called `fullStatisticsID` to store an id referencing the full table statistic the partial statistic was derived from.
- Ordinal column references (e.g., `SELECT @1, @2 FROM t`) are now deprecated. By default, statements using this syntax will now result in an error. If desired, such statements can be allowed using the session setting `SET allow_ordinal_column_references=true`. Support for ordinal column references is scheduled to be removed in upcoming version v23.2.
- The optimizer will now use table statistics that are merged combinations of the newest partial statistic and latest full statistic collection. And, if forecasting is enabled, the merged statistic will be used in the forecast.
- Added the column `indexes_usage` and the index `indexes_usage_idx` on value on the table `system.statement_statistics`.
- Add the `log_timezone` session variable, which is read-only and always `UTC`.
- Added Two new virtual tables `crdb_internal.index_spans` and `.table_spans`, which list the logical keyspace used by each index/table.
- The following new statements are introduced:
   - `SHOW RANGES FROM CURRENT_CATALOG` and `SHOW RANGES` without a parameter: functions as an alias for `SHOW RANGES FROM DATABASE` on the session's current database.
   - `SHOW RANGES FROM DATABASE ... WITH TABLES`: reports at least one row per table. It is possible for the same range ID to be repeated across multiple rows, when a range spans   multiple tables.
   - `SHOW RANGES FROM DATABASE ... WITH INDEXES`: reports at least one row per index. It is possible for the same range ID to be repeated across multiple rows, when a range spans multiple indexes.
   - `SHOW RANGES FROM TABLE ... WITH INDEXES`: reports at least one row per index. It is possible for the same range ID to be repeated across multiple rows, when a range spans   multiple indexes.
   - `SHOW CLUSTER RANGES [ WITH { INDEXES | TABLES } ]`: reports ranges across the entire cluster, including ranges that do not contain table data. The behavior of `WITH INDEXES` and `WITH TABLES` is the same as `SHOW RANGES FROM DATABASE`.
   Additionally, the following new options have been added to the `SHOW RANGES` statement:  - `WITH KEYS`: produces the raw bytes of the start/end key boundaries.
   - `WITH DETAILS`: produces more details, using computations that require extra network roundtrips. This option will make the operation slower overall.
   - `WITH EXPLAIN`: produces the text of the SQL query used to run the statement.
- Implemented the `pg_timezone_names` `pg_catalog` table, which lists all supported timezones.
- Improved the performance of trigram operations.
- Previously, CockroachDB would crash if a user creates a [user-defined function (UDF)]({% link v23.1/user-defined-functions.md %}) whose function signature includes a implicit record type (essentially a table) which has a column using a user defined enum type. The root cause was a hydration deadloop when looking up descriptors during hydration. This fix adds a new flag to avoid hydration in order to avoid the deadloop.
- Previously, error messages for missing users sometimes had different forms. This is now unified in the form `role/user "user" does not exist`.
- [User-defined functions (UDFs)]({% link v23.1/user-defined-functions.md %}) with subqueries in the body of the function are now supported.
- Previously, setting a table's locality was not allowed if the table contained any hash sharded index. This restriction is now removed.
- Users can now add a super region when creating a database.
- [`COPY`]({% link v23.1/copy.md %}) now logs an error during the insert phase on the `SQL_EXEC` logging channel.
- Added a new `REDACT` flag to [`EXPLAIN`]({% link v23.1/explain.md %}) which causes constants, literal values, parameter values, and any other user data to be redacted in explain output. Redacted statement diagnostics bundles can now be collected with [`EXPLAIN ANALYZE (DEBUG, REDACT)`]({% link v23.1/explain-analyze.md %}).
- Added two new virtual tables displaying execution insights for transactions:
   - `crdb_internal.cluster_txn_execution_insights`
   - `crdb_internal.node_txn_execution_insights`
- Some queries which previously resulted in the error "could not decorrelate subquery" now succeed.
- If `copy_from_retries_enabled` is set, [`COPY`]({% link v23.1/copy.md %}) is now able to retry certain safe circumstances: namely when `copy_from_atomic_enabled` is `false`, there is no transaction running `COPY` and the error returned is retriable. This prevents users who keep running into `TransactionProtoWithRefreshError` from having issues.
- Fixed the databases list API when the database name has special characters.
- The pgwire protocol implementation can now accept arguments of the `JSON[]` type (oid=199). Previously, it could only accept `JSONB[]` (oid=3804). Internally, `JSON[]` and `JSONB[]` values are still identical, so this change only affects how the values are received over the wire protocol.
- CPU time spent during SQL execution is now visible in the output of queries run with [`EXPLAIN ANALYZE`]({% link v23.1/explain-analyze.md %}). This measure does not include CPU time spent while serving KV requests, and CPU time is not shown for queries that perform mutations or for plans that aren't vectorized. This can be useful for diagnosing performance issues and optimizing SQL queries.
- The [`SHOW GRANTS ON EXTERNAL CONNECTION`]({% link v23.1/show-grants.md %}) and [`SHOW SYSTEM GRANTS`]({% link v23.1/show-system-grants.md %}) statements now use a column name of `privilege_type` rather than `privilege`. For external connections, the `name` column has been changed to `connection_name`. This makes the commands consistent with other `SHOW GRANTS` commands.
- The [`SHOW INDEXES`]({% link v23.1/show-index.md %}) statement will now show the expression used to define an index, if one was used.
- It is now possible to run efficient `tsvector @@ tsquery` searches when there is an inverted index on the `tsvector` column being searched.
- Added a `cpuNanos` field to the statistics column of the `crdb_internal.statement_statistics` and `system.statement_statistics` tables that reports the amount of CPU time in nanoseconds during SQL execution for queries that track CPU time.
- Previously, [`SHOW BACKUP`]({% link v23.1/show-backup.md %}) options would get parsed as `kv_options`, which meant that a user could not pass multiple values to a `SHOW BACKUP` option, causing feature gaps in `SHOW BACKUP` relative to [`BACKUP`]({% link v23.1/backup.md %}) and [`RESTORE`]({% link v23.1/restore.md %}). This patch rewrites the show backup option parser, closing the following feature gaps:
   - A user can now pass and check multiple KMS URIs in `SHOW BACKUP`
   - A user can pass locality-aware `incremental_locations`, allowing a user to also pass the `check_files` parameter to a locality-aware backup chain that also specifies the backup incremental location.
- Updated the name of the `cpuNanos` column to `cpuSQLNanos` on `crdb_internal.statement_statistics` and `system.statement_statistics`
- Some queries with `EXISTS` subqueries which previously resulted in the error "could not decorrelate subquery" now succeed.
- Users can query the `crdb_internal.kv_dropped_relation` table to see which tables, materialized views and sequences are currently already dropped but have not yet been garbage collected, along with the garbage collection TTL setting that is currently in force. This setting originates from the table's own zone configuration, or from its parent database which it inherits, or in turn from the default zone configuration. These settings are typically set using `ALTER TABLE ... CONFIGURE ZONE USING gc.ttlseconds = ...;`.
- Administrators may now call a new [built-in function]({% link v23.1/functions-and-operators.md %}) `crdb_internal.upsert_dropped_relation_gc_ttl` to retroactively set the garbage collection TTL on a table, materialized view, or sequence which has already been dropped. Effectively, this retroactively performs `ALTER TABLE ... CONFIGURE ZONE USING gc.ttlseconds = ...;`. Note that this statement is prevented from being executed on dropped tables because they can no longer be referenced by name at that point. Usage of this built-in is typically in conjunction with the recently-added `crdb_internal.kv_dropped_relations` virtual table. For example, garbage collection can be triggered ASAP for all dropped relations by querying:   `SELECT crdb_internal.upsert_dropped_relation_gc_ttl(id, '1 second') FROM crdb_internal.kv_dropped_relations;`. Doing so for all tables in a dropped database requires filtering on the `parent_id` column, the database name being lost at that point.
- Allow `*` expressions in [user-defined functions (UDFs)]({% link v23.1/user-defined-functions.md %}).
- Previously, [user-defined functions (UDFs)]({% link v23.1/user-defined-functions.md %}) could be created with any volatility no matter if the function body statements contained any expression which would violate the target volatility. For example, an immutable function might use `random()` in it. This change added validations to guarantee that all statements in the function body should be as strict as the expected UDF volatility.

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-2-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- Updated the metrics `queue.gc.info.clearrangesuccess` and `queue.gc.info.clearrangefailed` to include statistics about GC operations that perform `ClearRange` on parts of the range keyspace. Previously those metrics only included requests to remove range data completely when performing a schema change.
- The load-based splitter has been redesigned to be more consistent with CPU-based rebalancing rather than QPS-based rebalancing to improve range splits. This redesign is disabled by default currently.
- The [cluster setting]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) `storage.value_blocks.enabled`, when set to `true`, writes the values of older versions of the same key to separate value blocks in the same sstable. For workloads that create many versions, this can improve the performance of reads by increasing locality. It can also help scan performance with single versions due to an optimization that avoids a key comparison (useful if the key are not very short). The default value of this setting is currently `false`.
- The bytes read from SQL clients prior to authentication are now reported via the metric `sql.pre_serve.bytesin`. Previously, this was reported via the `sql.bytesin` metric.
- Transaction errors will contain more detailed information in redacted logs.
- Added the `COCKROACH_RAFT_MAX_INFLIGHT_BYTES` environment variable, which helps strictly limit inflight traffic from a Raft leader to its followers, particularly in situations when many large messages are sent and significantly exceed `COCKROACH_RAFT_MAX_SIZE_PER_MSG * COCKROACH_RAFT_MAX_INFLIGHT_MSGS` which is a softer limit.
- Log messages for write stalls have been adjusted slightly.
- Histogram metrics can now optionally use the legacy `HdrHistogram` model by setting a new environment variable `COCKROACH_ENABLE_HDR_HISTOGRAMS` to `true` on CockroachDB nodes. **Note that this is not recommended** unless users are having difficulties with the newer Prometheus-backed histogram model. Enabling legacy historgrams can cause performance issues with timeseries databases like Prometheus, as processing and storing the increased number of buckets is taxing on both CPU and storage. Note that the legacy `HdrHistogram` model is slated for full deprecation in upcoming releases.
- Prometheus histograms will now export more buckets across the board to improve precision & fidelity of information reported by histogram metrics, such as quantiles. This will lead to an increase in storage requirements to process these histogram metrics in downstream systems like Prometheus, but should still be a marked improvement when compared to the legacy HdrHistogram model. If users have issues with the precision of these bucket boundaries, they can set the environment variable `COCKROACH_ENABLE_HDR_HISTOGRAMS=true` to revert to using the legacy HdrHistogram model instead, although this is not recommended otherwise as the HdrHistogram strains systems like Prometheus with excessive numbers of histogram buckets. Note that HdrHistograms are slated for full deprecation in upcoming releases.
- In the rare event of a range inconsistency, the consistency checker now saves a storage checkpoint on each storage the range belongs to. Previously, this was a full checkpoint, so its cost could quickly escalate on the nodes that went on running. This change makes the checkpoints partial, i.e., they now only contain the relevant range and its neighbors. This eliminates the time pressure on the cluster operator to remove the checkpoints.
- The count of new SQL connections is now also reported on `sql.pre_serve.new_conns`.
- The count of network bytes sent to report re-authentication errors to a SQL client is now reported via the metric `sql.pre_serve.bytesout` (instead of `sql.bytesout` previously). The count of pre-authentication errors is now reported via the metric `sql.pre_serve.conn.failures` (instead of `sql.conn.failures` previously).

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-2-command-line-changes">Command-line changes</h3>

- The TLS parameters to connect to a [`cockroach demo`]({% link v23.1/cockroach-demo.md %}) cluster from SQL clients have been simplified.
- The password assigned to the `demo` user in [`cockroach demo`]({% link v23.1/cockroach-demo.md %}) can now be overridden by the env var `COCKROACH_DEMO_PASSWORD`. This is meant for use in automated tests, when tests cannot be configured to use TLS client certificate authentication using the client certificates in `$HOME/.cockroach-demo`.
- [`cockroach sql`]({% link v23.1/cockroach-sql.md %}) and [`cockroach demo`]({% link v23.1/cockroach-demo.md %}) now support an `\info` client-side command to print the server details again.
- [`cockroach demo`]({% link v23.1/cockroach-demo.md %}) is now able to preserve open web sessions across restarts of the `cockroach demo` command. The sessions are saved in the directory `~/.cockroach-demo` alongside the TLS certificates and keys.
- The file format used for transient loss of quorum recovery files has changed. It is not possible to use replica info files generated by earlier versions to be used with current and future versions.
- Workloads that take a `--seed` argument previously defaulted to `1`. Now, they use a randomly generated seed in each run. Users can still pass a custom seed with the `--seed` flag.
- Added `cpu_time_per_second` to the `hot-ranges.sh` utility `debug zip` script.

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-2-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- Secure clusters now show correct login information in the top right corner.
- The databases filter dropdown in the **Statements** page now uses the `getDatabasesList()` API call, resulting in all cluster databases showing up.
- Added information about the selected plan to the **Explain Plan** tab under **Statement Details**.
- The **Databases** page and the **Databases Details** pages now each contain search and filter components, allowing the ability to search and filter through databases and their tables.
- Graphs can now be clicked on to toggle legend "stickiness" and make the points stop following the mouse. This makes it easier to read dense graphs with many series plotted together.
- The **Statement Fingerprint Details** page in the DB Console no longer infinitely loads after 5 minutes.
- Added a time picker to the **Workload Insights Overview** pages in the DB Console.
- Added all three session status options (`Active`, `Closed`, and `Idle`) and an empty results placeholder.
- Added a list of all statement fingerprints that use a given index to the **Index Details page**.
- Removed `reset sql stats` and `reset index stats` from the DB Console when the user is a non-admin.
- Remove `reset sql stats` from the **Transactions** page for non-admins.
- Added an insights type filter for the **Workload Insights** page, and added an execution status filter for the **Active Execution** pages.
- Hid the apply option for index recommendation when the user is not an admin.
- The Database list filter now shows all databases in the cluster on CC console.
- Hid the filter for the **Databases** and **Database Details** pages if both the node and regions dropdowns are also hidden.
- The introduction of the **Key Visualizer** makes it easy to identify historical hotspots. To support this new feature, three new [cluster settings]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) are introduced:
   - `keyvisualizer.enabled`: enables the Key Visualizer.
   - `keyvisualizer.sample_interval`: controls the frequency at which the Key Visualizer collects samples.
   - `keyvisualizer.max_buckets` controls the maximum number of buckets in a sample.
- Added a CPU Time chart to the **Statement Details** page.
- Added CPU time as a column on the **Statement and Transaction** tables.
- Hid the list of used fingerprints per index on the **Index Details** page for non-admin users.
- Added write bytes, write keys, read bytes, read keys and cpu statistics to the `/hotranges` DB Console page. These statistics are the rated average over the last 30 minutes.
- The loading spinner on the **Insights Overview** page now only shows when a request is pending and either the data is nullish or invalid (i.e., a new time range selected).
- Previously, transaction start time for the **Transaction Insights** page was only available for transaction insights with high contention as the issue. This information is now available for all transaction insights: start time, end time, and time elapsed.
- Added search, filter and time picker for the list of most-used statement fingerprints on the **Index Details** page.
- Added CPU Time to the **Statement and Transaction Insights** page.
- Previously, the stale node metrics displayed in the **Cluster Overview Nodes** table may mislead users in to thinking that they are current values when in fact they are stale. Now these metrics are displayed with a stale tag, allowing for users to be informed about the staleness of the data displayed to them regarding dead nodes.

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-2-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug where the `session_id` session variable would not be properly set if used from a subquery.
- Fixed a bug where CockroachDB could, in rare cases, encounter an internal error when evaluating the `crdb_internal.range_stats` [built-in function]({% link v23.1/functions-and-operators.md %}) (which powers the [`SHOW RANGES`]({% link v23.1/show-ranges.md %}) command among other things). The bug was introduced in v22.2.0 and is now fixed.
- Fixed a bug that could prevent `CASE` expressions that used placeholder return values from type-checking correctly.
- Updated the volatility of the `hmac`, `digest`, and `crypt` built-ins to be immutable.
- Server logs are now correctly fsynced at every syncInterval.
- The `stxnamespace`, `stxkind` and `stxstattarget` columns are now defined in `pg_statistics_ext`.
- Fixed a bug where, when experimental MVCC range tombstones are enabled (they are disabled by default), a bulk ingestion (e.g., an `IMPORT`) could fail to take a committed-but-unresolved write intent into account during conflict checks when written above an MVCC range tombstone. It was therefore possible in very rare circumstances for the ingestion to write a value below the timestamp of the committed intent, causing the ingested value to disappear.
- This patch fixes `JOIN` queries involving tables with unique constraints using `LIMIT`, `GROUP BY`, and `ORDER BY` clauses to ensure that the optimizer considers streaming group-by with no `TopK` operation, when possible. This is often the most efficient query plan.
- Secure clusters now show correct login information in the top right corner.
- Previously, CockroachDB could crash in rare circumstances when evaluating lookup and index joins. The bug has been present since the v22.2.0 release. You can also employ a temporary workaround without upgrading to the release with this fix by changing the value of the undocumented [cluster setting]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) `sql.distsql.use_streamer.enabled` to `false`.
- The `CREATE ROLE`, `DELETE ROLE`, `GRANT`, and `REVOKE` statements no longer function when the transaction is in read-only mode.
- Fixed a bug where, when experimental MVCC range tombstones are enabled (they are disabled by default), a bulk ingestion (e.g., an `IMPORT`) could, in some situations, fail to properly check for conflicts with existing MVCC range tombstones. This could cause the ingestion to write below a recently-written MVCC range tombstone, in turn losing the ingested data. This could only happen in rare circumstances where a bulk ingestion was applied concurrently with an import cancellation.
- Fixed a bug where, in some cases, the start/end key columns of the output of [`SHOW RANGES`]({% link v23.1/show-ranges.md %}) was missing.
- Fixed a bug where trigrams ignored unicode (multi-byte) characters from input strings.
- Fixed a bug that could happen when type-checking an array expression that only contains NULLs and placeholder values. The bug was only present in v22.2.1.
- Fixed a bug where tables which receive writes concurrently with portions of an `ALTER TABLE ... SET LOCALITY REGIONAL BY ROW` may fail with an error: `duplicate key value violates unique constraint "new_primary_key"`. This bug was introduced in 22.1.
- Fixed a bug where CockroachDB could encounter an internal error when evaluating window functions with `RANGE` window frame mode with an `OFFSET PRECEDING` or `OFFSET FOLLOWING` boundary set when an `ORDER BY` clause has the `NULLS LAST` option set. This will now result in a regular error since the feature is marked as unsupported.
- Previously, CockroachDB could delay the release of the locks acquired when evaluating `SELECT FOR UPDATE` statements in some cases. This delay (up to 5s) could then block future readers. The bug was introduced in 22.2.0, and the temporary workaround without upgrading to a release with this fix is to set the undocumented [cluster setting]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) `sql.distsql.use_streamer.enabled` to `false`.
- Record types can now be encoded with the binary encoding of the Postgres wire protocol. Previously, trying to use this encoding could case a panic.
- Fixed a panic that could be caused when using a SQL cursor to access tables in the `crdb_internal` schema.
- Fixed a bug in which `RESTORE SYSTEM USERS` would fail to restore [role options]({% link v23.1/alter-role.md %}#role-options).
- Fixed a crash that could occur on the gateway node when collecting a statement diagnostics bundle (e.g., [`EXPLAIN ANALYZE (DEBUG)`]({% link v23.1/explain-analyze.md %})) on a statement that fails with certain errors. This crash has existed in various forms since the introduction of statement bundles in v20.1.0.
- Fixed a recursive CTE expressions which cause internal errors when explicit CASTs of initial expressions to output types are missing.
- Previously, certain `GRANT` or `REVOKE` commands on a user which does not exist would error with the correct PG code. This is now fixed.
- The `pg_proc` and `pg_type` virtual OID indexes no longer incorrectly show cross-db objects.
- It is now possible to run `cockroach version` and `cockroach start` (and possibly other sub-commands) when the user running the command does not have permission to access the current working directory.
- It is now possible to use a directory whose name is `"disabled"` via `--external-io-dir`. To actually disable external I/O, use `--external-io-dir=""`.
- This patch fixes an internal error occurring in CASE expressions when a column present in a `THEN` or `ELSE` expression is of an inequivalent type compared to that of a constant this column is compared to in an equality predicate, e.g., `(CASE WHEN false THEN int_col ELSE 1 END) IN (int_col) AND int_col=3/2`.
- The `pronamespace` column of the `pg_proc` table now correctly reports the `crdb_internal` schema for [built-in functions]({% link v23.1/functions-and-operators.md %}) that have the "crdb_internal" prefix.
- In the SQL shell ([`cockroach sql`]({% link v23.1/cockroach-sql.md %}) / [`cockroach demo`]({% link v23.1/cockroach-demo.md %})), when using `\c`/`\connect` to connect to a different server, CockroachDB would previously report an error if the new server had a different cluster ID. This has been fixed: this situation is merely a warning.
- When using identity maps (via `server.identity_map.configuration`), authentication now correctly verifies that the client-provided username matches at least one of the mappings for the system identity. Previously, the client-provided username was incorrectly ignored and authentication could fail if the first candidate mapping did not result in a valid DB username.
- The `prokind` column of `pg_catalog.pg_proc` is now populated properly.
- `pg_catalog.pg_description` and `pg_catalog.obj_description()` are now able to retrieve the descriptive help for [built-in functions]({% link v23.1/functions-and-operators.md %}).
- Fixed a crash that could occur when formatting a tuple with an unknown type.
- Fixed a bug where a DNS lookup was performed during gossip remote forwarding while holding the gossip mutex. This could cause processing stalls if the DNS server was slow to respond.
- Fixed a bug where `CLOSE ALL` would not respect the "ALL" flag and would instead attempt to close a cursor with no name.
- Fixed a bug where default expressions could have a type which differs from the type of the column as long as the expression's type could be cast in an assignment context, which could lead to a panic during a backfill if such a default expression was added to a new column. This bug was introduced in v22.2.0.
- DB Console features that check for the `VIEWACTIVITYREDACTED` privilege now also account for [system-level privileges](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/security-reference/authorization#supported-privileges).
- CockroachDB now supports receiving `regXXX`-type values in binary extended protocol.
- Operations like [`BACKUP`]({% link v23.1/backup.md %}) can now reuse a previously created AWS KMS client if the client was created with the same parameters. This addresses the `NoCredentialProviders` errors on EC2 for backups with long incremental chains.
- The syntax `EXPLAIN (DDL) COMMENT ON` is now possible.
- Fixed a bug where a database [`RESTORE`]({% link v23.1/restore.md %}) would not grant `CREATE` and `USAGE` on the public schema to the public role.
- Fixed the formatting of JSON values inside of a SQL array so they no longer have improper quoting.
- Fixed a bug which could cause expressions with side-effects (e.g., volatile expressions or data-modifying statements like `INSERT`) in `NOT MATERIALIZED` CTEs to be executed more than once. This bug was present since `NOT MATERIALIZED` was first supported in version 20.2.0.
- Fixed `pg_get_indexdef` so that it shows the expression used to define an expression-based index. In addition, the function was previously including columns stored by the index, which was incorrect and has now also been fixed.
- Reduced register session, deregister session, and session cancel query contention.
- Fixed a bug that could cause arguments of a [`COALESCE`]({% link v23.1/functions-and-operators.md %}#conditional-and-function-like-operators)  statement to be evaluated when previous arguments always evaluated to non-NULL values. This bug could cause query errors to originate from arguments of a `COALESCE` that should have never been evaluated.
- Fixed the `array_to_string` [built-in function]({% link v23.1/functions-and-operators.md %}) so that nested arrays are traversed without printing 'ARRAY' at each nesting level.
- Fixed a bug where using the [`COPY`]({% link v23.1/copy.md %}) statement to copy data into a column with collated strings would result in an error similar to `internal error: unknown type collatedstring`.
- The content of `column_default` in `information_schema.columns` no longer has type annotations.
- Fixed a long-standing bug that caused incorrect parsing of double-quoted identifiers separated by one or more newlines.
- Fixed a rare internal errors in `LATERAL` queries with redundant function calls.
- Fixed an internal error which may occur in the `SHOW RANGE FROM TABLE` statement when the `FOR ROW` clause specifies a `BYTE` literal and the corresponding column data type is `BIT`.
- Fixed an internal errors which may occur on some `AS OF SYSTEM TIME` expressions.
- Fixed a bug where a node with a disk stall would continue to accept new connections and preserve existing connections until the disk stall abated.
- Fixed a bug where a [`RESTORE`]({% link v23.1/restore.md %}) flow could hang indefinitely in the face of a context cancellation, manifesting as a stuck restore job.
- Fixed a bug where the `NOSQLLOGIN` [system-level privilege](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/security-reference/authorization#supported-privileges) had a bug that made CockroachDB ignore it entirely, so it had no effect. The bug was introduced in v22.2.0-alpha.1. The `NOSQLLOGIN` [role option]({% link v23.1/alter-role.md %}#role-options) is unaffected by this bug.
- The compatibility scalar functions in `information_schema` are now listed in the proper namespace in `pg_catalog.pg_proc`.
- Fixed a bug in which the [`CREATE SCHEDULE`]({% link v23.1/create-schedule-for-backup.md %}) statement would not properly handle a placeholder for the `revision_history` option.

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-2-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- The optimizer can now avoid planning a sort in more cases with joins that perform lookups into an index with one or more columns sorted in descending order. This can significantly decrease the number of rows that have to be scanned in order to satisfy a [`LIMIT`]({% link v23.1/limit-offset.md %}) clause.
- Significantly reduced CPU usage of the underlying gossip network in large clusters.
- Refactored the query logic when fetching database index recommendations for the `DatabaseDetails` API endpoint, greatly reducing the query time and cost, particularly for large schemas.
- Improved performance when populating `crdb_internal.default_privileges`.
- Some types of [user-defined functions (UDFs)]({% link v23.1/user-defined-functions.md %}) are now inlined in query plans as relation expressions, which speeds up their evaluation. UDFs must be non-volatile and have a single statement in the function body to be inlined.
- Improved the performance of `pg_{function,table,type}_is_visible`.
- Long chains of incremental backups and restore of such chains will now allocate less memory during the unmarshaling of metadata.
- Extended the RPC compression encoding with a length prefixing format, allowing more efficient decompression on receivers.
- When planning lookup joins with a [`LIMIT`]({% link v23.1/limit-offset.md %}) clause from a `REGIONAL BY ROW` input table, the optimizer will now explore a locality-optimized-search plan of two lookup joins to possibly avoid high latency of reading rows in a remote region.
- Improve the performance of the `SHOW FUNCTIONS` statement.
- Improved the performance of several PostgreSQL compatibility built-ins.
- In some cases, when planning an inverted zigzag join, the optimizer can now detect whether it is necessary to re-apply the filter after the zigzag join. If it is not necessary, the optimizer can produce a more efficient plan.
- Fixed a bug which could lead to very slow drop when tables or views have a very large number of columns (greater than 1000).
- In 22.2, CockroachDB introduced support for `DISCARD TEMP` and made `DISCARD ALL` actually discard temp tables. This implementation ran expensive logic to discover temporary schemas rather than consulting in-memory data structures. As a result, `DISCARD ALL`, which is issued regularly by connection pools, became an expensive operation when it should be cheap. This problem is now resolved.
- In 22.2, logic was added to make `SET SESSION AUTHORIZATION DEFAULT` not a no-op. This implementation used more general code for setting the role for a session which made sure that the role exists. This improves the performance of the `DISCARD ALL` and `SET SESSION AUTHORIZATION DEFAULT` statements.
- The optimizer now plans inverted index scans for queries that filter by JSON fetch value operators (`->`) with integer indices, e.g, `json_col->0 = '{"b": "c"}'`.
- The optimizer now plans inverted index scans for queries that filter by JSON fetch value operators (`->`) with integer indices alongside the "contains" or the "contained by" operators, e.g, `json_col->0 @> '{"b": "c"}' or json_col->0 <@ '{"b": "c"}'`.
- Added delegated snapshots which can reduce WAN traffic for snapshot movement. If there is another replica for this range with a closer locality than the delegate, the leaseholder will attempt to have that delegate send the snapshot. This is particularly useful in the case of a decommission of a node where most snapshots are transferred to another replica in the same locality.
- The Raft proposal pipeline has been optimized to reduce interference between Raft proposals. This improves average and tail write latency at high concurrency.

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-2-build-changes">Build changes</h3>

- The native binary for Cypress is now only downloaded and installed when UI end-to-end tests are run, instead of eagerly downloading it on all platforms at build-time. This restores the ability for non-{Windows, Darwin, Linux} platforms like FreeBSD and illumos to build CRDB without modifications, which broke in the initial 22.2 release.
- Required NPM dependencies are now fetched from a Google Cloud Storage bucket managed by Cockroach Labs instead of from a git submodule committed in-tree.

<div class="release-note-contributors" markdown="1">

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-2-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 820 merged PRs by 95 authors.
We would like to thank the following contributors from the CockroachDB community:

- HighPon (first-time contributor)
- Vivian Kong

</div>
