## v23.1.0-alpha.8

Release Date: March 27, 2023

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-8-security-updates">Security updates</h3>

- Previously, users could gain unauthorized access to [statement diagnostic bundles]({% link v23.1/ui-statements-page.md %}#diagnostics) they did not create if they requested the bundle through an HTTP request to `/_admin/v1/stmtbundle/<id>` and correctly guessed its (non-secret) `ID`.  This change ensures that only authorized SQL users can request statement diagnostic bundles.

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-8-general-changes">General changes</h3>

- Increased the specificity of log messages to help troubleshoot [DB Console SSO]({% link v23.1/sso-db-console.md %}) issues.

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-8-{{-site.data.products.enterprise-}}-edition-changes">{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} edition changes</h3>

- The MuxRangefeed client, which is enabled with the `changefeed.mux_rangefeed.enabled` [cluster setting]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}), is now more efficient when running against large-scale workloads.
- The `server.oidc_authentication.claim_json_key` [cluster setting]({% link v23.1/cluster-settings.md %}) for DB Console SSO now accepts list-valued token claims.
- Added the `WITH` key_column option to override the message metadata key for [changefeeds]({% link v23.1/changefeed-examples.md %}). This changes the key hashed to determine Kafka partitions. It does not affect the output of `key_in_value` or the domain of the per-key ordering guarantee.
- The [Node Map]({% link v23.1/ui-cluster-overview-page.md %}#node-map) now shows normalized CPU usage.

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-8-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- Fixed a bug where the check constraint on an `OID` type column results in a panic in the legacy schema changer.
- Added a new `WITH REDACT` option to the following statements: [`SHOW CREATE`]({% link v23.1/show-create.md %}), [`SHOW CREATE TABLE`]({% link v23.1/show-create.md %}#show-the-create-table-statement-for-a-table), and [`SHOW CREATE VIEW`]({% link v23.1/show-create.md %}#show-the-create-view-statement-for-a-view)  which replaces constants and literals in the printed `CREATE` statement with the redacted marker, `‹×›`.
- Added support for the `REDACT` flag to the following variants of [`EXPLAIN`]({% link v23.1/explain.md %}): `EXPLAIN (OPT)`, `EXPLAIN (OPT, CATALOG)`, `EXPLAIN (OPT, MEMO)`, `EXPLAIN (OPT, TYPES)`, and `EXPLAIN (OPT, VERBOSE)`.  These `EXPLAIN` statements will have constants, literal values, parameter values, and any other user data redacted in the output.
- Disallowed the [`RESTORE`]({% link v23.1/restore.md %}) of backups taken on a cluster version older than the minimum binary version the current cluster can interoperate with. This is described in an updated version of the policy outlined in ["Restoring Backups Across Versions"]({% link v23.1/restoring-backups-across-versions.md %}).
- Bulk [`COPY FROM`]({% link v23.1/copy.md %}) statements are now processed with a vectorized insert and can be anywhere from 0.5x to 5x faster. Typical hardware and schemas should see a 2x improvement. Vectorized inserts are only used for `COPY` statements and are not yet applied to regular inserts. Both the `vectorize` and `copy_fast_path_enabled` session variables can be used to disable this feature.
- Added [stemming and stopword-eliminating](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/blog/full-text-indexing-search/) text search configurations for English, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, French, German, Hungarian, Italian, Norwegian, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish, Swedish, and Turkish.
- Added the `system.statement_activity` and `system.transaction_activity` tables. These tables are used to populate the [SQL Activity]({% link v23.1/ui-statements-page.md %}) pages, and contain the top N statements and transactions based on different key columns.
- Added helper text for [`UPDATE`]({% link v23.1/update.md %}) to include `FROM <source>`.
- Added the `default_text_search_config` variable for compatibility with single-argument variants to the following text search functions: `to_tsvector`, `to_tsquery`, `phraseto_tsquery`, and `plainto_tsquery`, which use the value of `default_text_search_config` instead of expecting one to be included as in the two-argument variants. The default value of this setting is `english`.
- Added the `ts_rank` function for ranking text search query results.
- Renamed the `coordinator_locality` option in `BACKUP` to [`EXECUTION LOCALITY`]({% link v23.1/take-locality-restricted-backups.md %}). This option allows the user to control the nodes involved in the execution of a backup job, including the processing of row data and job coordination. For example, defining an execution locality for a backup job could reduce latency when a cluster is running heavy workloads and has a frequent backup schedule.

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-8-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- Checkpoint directories that can be created in the rare event of range inconsistency are now clearly indicated as `pending` until they are fully populated. This helps operators  distinguish valid checkpoints from corrupted ones.
- [Prometheus]({% link v23.1/monitor-cockroachdb-with-prometheus.md %}) metrics available at the `_status/vars` path now contain a `node_id` label that identifies the node they were scraped from.

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-8-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- The [Statement & Transaction Fingerprints]({% link v23.1/ui-statements-page.md %}#statement-fingerprint-page) pages no longer poll data, to simplify the user experience and reduce any performance impact.
- Data on the [Statement Fingerprint Details]({% link v23.1/ui-statements-page.md %}#statement-fingerprints-view) page no longer updates automatically every 5mins.
- Updated the Jobs table column name from "Last Modified Time" to "Last Execution Time".
- On the [SQL Activity Fingerprints]({% link v23.1/ui-overview.md %}#sql-activity) pages, users will not see stats that have not yet been flushed to disk.
- Users can now request `top-k statements by % runtime` on the SQL Activity Fingerprints pages.
- Added Search Criteria to the [Statements]({% link v23.1/ui-statements-page.md %}) and [Transactions]({% link v23.1/ui-transactions-page.md %}) pages, and updated the UX with improvements.
- Added badges for each selected filter on the [SQL Activity]({% link v23.1/ui-overview.md %}#sql-activity) and [Insights]({% link v23.1/ui-insights-page.md %}) pages.
- The default request sort for the [Statement Fingerprints Overview]({% link v23.1/ui-statements-page.md %}#statement-fingerprints-view) page is now `% of All Runtime`.
- Fixed a bug where the table's `CREATE` statement would not display correctly on the [Table Details]({% link v23.1/ui-databases-page.md %}#table-details) page.
- Added an assertion on the KV side to prevent other existing or future attempts of LeafTxn issuing locking requests. This ensures the KV API is used as agreed upon and can be helpful in debugging latency issues caused by holding locks.

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-8-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a rare panic in `upstream etcd-io/raft` when a message appends race with log compaction.
- In the DB Console Stats pages, issuing a new request for stats while one is pending is now allowed and will replace the pending request.
- Fixed a bug in which [`SET avoid_buffering = true`]({% link v23.1/set-vars.md %}) could produce a crash on subsequent operations.
- Fixed a bug where using [`ST_Transform`](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v23.1/functions-and-operators#st_transform) could result in a memory leak.
- Fixed internal errors in [`SHOW JOBS`]({% link v23.1/show-jobs.md %}) statements that have a `WITH` clause.
- Previously, the [`ADD COLUMN ... DEFAULT cluster_logical_timestamp()`]({% link v23.1/alter-table.md %}#add-column) statement would crash the node and leave the table in a corrupt state. The root cause is a `nil` pointer dereference. The bug is now fixed by returning an unimplemented error and hence disallowing using the [builtin function]({% link v23.1/functions-and-operators.md %}#array-functions) as the default value when backfilling.
- Fixed a bug that could prevent a cached query with a user-defined type reference from being invalidated even after a schema change that should prevent the type from being resolved.
- Fixed a bug that could prevent a cached query from being invalidated when a [UDF]({% link v23.1/user-defined-functions.md %}) referenced by that query was altered or dropped.
- Fixed the replacement of in-flight requests for `KeyedCachedDataReducer`s to prevent permanent loading on requests stuck on an `inFlight` status.
- Improved the reliability of latency data in v23.1 clusters.

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-8-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- The Raft tick interval has been increased from `200ms` to `500ms` in order to reduce per-replica CPU costs, and can now be adjusted via `COCKROACH_RAFT_TICK_INTERVAL`. Dependant parameters such as the Raft election timeout (`COCKROACH_RAFT_ELECTION_TIMEOUT_TICKS`), reproposal timeout (`COCKROACH_RAFT_REPROPOSAL_TIMEOUT_TICKS`), and heartbeat interval (`COCKROACH_RAFT_HEARTBEAT_INTERVAL_TICKS`) have been adjusted such that their wall-time value remains the same.
- The Raft scheduler is now sharded to relieve contention during range Raft processing, which can significantly improve performance at high CPU core counts.

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-8-build-changes">Build changes</h3>

- Running `./dev ui test` (or `bazel test //pkg/ui/workspaces/db-console:jest`) now uses less memory.

<div class="release-note-contributors" markdown="1">

<h3 id="v23-1-0-alpha-8-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 174 merged PRs by 65 authors.
We would like to thank the following contributors from the CockroachDB community:

- Eric.Yang

</div>
