## v24.2.5

Release Date: November 18, 2024

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v24-2-5-security-updates">Security updates</h3>

- Host-based authentication (HBA) configuration entries for LDAP will be evaluated for proper LDAP parameter values, and a valid and complete list of authentication method options is now required to amend HBA settings.
- You can now authenticate to the DB Console by passing a JWT as the bearer token.

<h3 id="v24-2-5-general-changes">General changes</h3>

- Change the license `cockroach` is distributed under to the new CockroachDB Software License.
- The cluster setting `diagnostics.reporting.enabled` is now ignored if the cluster has an Enterprise Trial or Enterprise Free license, or if the license cannot be loaded.
- The new metrics `changefeed.sink_errors` and `changefeed.internal_retry_message_count` allow you to observe the rate of errors and internal retries for a sink, respectively.
- Added a timer for inner sink client flushes.

<h3 id="v24-2-5-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- The DB Console now shows a warning if the cluster is throttled or will be throttled soon due to an expired Enterprise Free or Enterprise Trial license or due to missing telemetry data. Clusters with an Enterprise license are not throttled.
- The Range Count column on the Databases page is no longer shown due to performance issues. This data is still available via the `SHOW RANGES` command.

<h3 id="v24-2-5-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug where timers were not correctly registered with the metric system.
- Fixed a bug where the command-line interface would not correctly escape JSON values that had double quotes inside a string when using the `--format=sql` flag.
- Fixed an error that could occur if a `SET` command used an aggregate function as the value.
- Fixed a bug where ordering by `VECTOR` columns could result in an internal error in some cases. Now an `unimplemented` error is returned instead.
- Added automated clean-up/validation for dropped roles inside default privileges.
- Fixed a bug that that caused incorrect evaluation of a `CASE`, `COALESCE`, or `IF` expression with a branch that produced fixed-width string-like types, such as `CHAR`.
- Fixed a bug that could cause the `BPCHAR` type to incorrectly impose a length limit of 1.
- Fixed a rare bug that could prevent a backup from being restored and could cause the error `rewriting descriptor ids: missing rewrite for <id> in SequenceOwner...`. This bug could occur only if a `DROP COLUMN` operation dropped a sequence while the backup was running.
- Fixed a bug introduced in v23.1 that could cause incorrect results when a join evaluates columns with equivalent but non-identical types, such as `OID` and `REGCLASS`, for equality. The issue arises when the join performs an index lookup on an index that includes a computed column referencing one of the equivalent columns.
- Fixed a bug introduced before v23.1 that could cause a composite sensitive expression to compare differently if comparing equivalent but non-identical input values, such as `2.0::DECIMAL` and `2.00::DECIMAL`.  The issue arises when the join performs an index lookup on a table with a computed index column where the computed column expression is composite sensitive.
- Fixed a bug where a span statistics request on a mixed-version cluster could result in a null pointer exception.
- Updated the `franz-go` library to fix a potential deadlock when a changefeed restarts.
- Fixed a bug where a changefeed could fail to update protected timestamp records after a retryable error.
- Fixed a bug where a changefeed that used change data capture queries could fail after a system table was garbage collected.
- Fixed a rare bug introduced in v22.2 where an update of a primary key column could fail to update the primary index if it is also the only column in a separate column family.
- Fixed a bug where the `proretset` column of the `pg_catalog.pg_proc` table was incorrectly set to `false` for builtin functions that return a set.
- Fixed a bug that could cause incorrect evaluation of scalar expressions with `NULL` values.
- Fixed a rare bug in the query optimizer that could cause a node to crash if a query contained a filter in the form `col IN (elem0, elem1, ..., elemN)` when `N` is very large, in the order of millions, and when `col` exists in a hash-sharded index or when a table with an indexed computed column depends on `col`.
- Fixed a bug where an `ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGES FOR target_role ...` command could result in an erroneous privilege error when run by a user with the `admin` role.
- Fixed a bug where a `REASSIGN OWNED BY` command would fail to transfer ownership of the public schema, even when the schema was owned by the target role.
- Fixed a panic when resolving the types of an `AS OF SYSTEM TIME` expression.
- Fixed a bug that could cause new connections to fail with the following error after upgrading: `ERROR: invalid value for parameter "vectorize": "unknown(1)" SQLSTATE: 22023 HINT: Available values: off,on,experimental_always`. To encounter this bug, the cluster must have:
    1. Run on version v21.1 at some point in the past.
    1. Run `SET CLUSTER SETTING sql.defaults.vectorize = 'on';` while running v21.1.
    1. **Not** set `sql.defaults.vectorize` after upgrading past v21.1 4.
    1. Subsequently upgraded to v24.2.

    To detect this bug, run the following query:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ sql
    SELECT * FROM system.settings WHERE name = 'sql.defaults.vectorize
    ~~~

    If the command returns `1` instead of `on`, run the following statement before upgrading.

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ sql
    RESET CLUSTER SETTING sql.defaults.vectorize;
    ~~~

    `1` is now allowed as a value for this setting, and is equivalent to `on`.
- Fixed a rare bug that could cause unnecessarily high disk usage in the presence of high rebalance activity.

<h3 id="v24-2-5-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- Performance has been improved during periodic polling of table history when `schema_locked` is not used.
