## v24.2.0

Release Date: August 12, 2024

With the release of CockroachDB v24.2, we've added new capabilities to help you migrate, build, and operate more efficiently. Refer to our summary of the most significant user-facing changes under [Feature Highlights](#v24-2-0-feature-highlights).

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v24-2-0-feature-highlights">Feature highlights</h3>

This section summarizes the most significant user-facing changes in v24.2.0 and other features recently made available to CockroachDB users across versions. For a complete list of features and changes in v24.2, including bug fixes and performance improvements, refer to the [release notes]({% link releases/index.md %}#testing-releases) for previous v24.2 testing releases. You can also search the docs for sections labeled [New in v24.2](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/search?query=new+in+v24.2).

- **Feature categories**
    - [Change data capture](#v24-2-0-change-data-capture)
    - [Migrations](#v24-2-0-migrations)
    - [SQL](#v24-2-0-sql)
    - [Operations](#v24-2-0-operations)
    - [Observability](#v24-2-0-observability)

- **Additional information**
    - [Backward-incompatible changes and deprecations](#v24-2-0-backward-incompatible-changes-and-deprecations)
    - [Key cluster setting changes](#v24-2-0-key-cluster-setting-changes)
    - [Known limitations](#v24-2-0-known-limitations)
    - [Additional resources](#v24-2-0-additional-resources)

{{ site.data.alerts.callout_info }}
In CockroachDB Self-Hosted, all available features are free to use unless their description specifies that an Enterprise license is required. For more information, refer to the [Licensing FAQ](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/stable/licensing-faqs).
{{ site.data.alerts.end }}

<div id="feature-highlights">

<h4 id="v24-2-0-change-data-capture">Change Data Capture</h4>

{% include releases/v24.2/feature-highlights-change-data-capture.html %}

<h4 id="v24-2-0-migrations">Migrations</h4>

{% include releases/v24.2/feature-highlights-migrations.html %}

<h4 id="v24-2-0-sql">SQL</h4>

{% include releases/v24.2/feature-highlights-sql.html %}

<h4 id="v24-2-0-operations">Operations</h4>

{% include releases/v24.2/feature-highlights-operations.html %}

<h4 id="v24-2-0-observability">Observability</h4>

{% include releases/v24.2/feature-highlights-observability.html %}

{% include releases/v24.2/feature-detail-key.html %}

</div>

<a name="v24-2-0-backward-incompatible-changes"></a>
<a name="v24-2-0-deprecations"></a>

<h4 id="v24-2-0-backward-incompatible-changes-and-deprecations">Backward-incompatible changes and deprecations</h4>

CockroachDB v24.2.0 includes no backward-incompatible changes or deprecations.

<a name="v24-2-0-cluster-settings"></a>

<h4 id="v24-2-0-key-cluster-setting-changes">Key Cluster Setting Changes</h4>

The following changes should be reviewed prior to upgrading. Default cluster settings will be used unless you have manually set a value for a setting. This can be confirmed by running the SQL statement `SELECT * FROM system.settings` to view the non-default settings.

- [Settings added](#v24-2-0-settings-added)
- [Settings removed](#v24-2-0-settings-removed)
- [Settings with changed defaults](#v24-2-0-settings-with-changed-defaults)
- [Settings with new options](#v24-2-0-settings-with-new-options)
- [Settings with new aliases](#v24-2-0-settings-with-new-aliases)

<h5 id="v24-2-0-settings-added">Settings added</h5>

- `debug.zip.redact_addresses`: Added the [cluster setting]({% link v24.2/cluster-settings.md %}) `debug.zip.redact_addresses.enabled` that allows the user to enable or disable redaction of fields like `hostname` and IP addresses. [#123544][#123544]
- `kv.transaction.randomized_anchor_key`: Previously, concurrent transactions that constructed large write batches could cause [hotspots]({% link v24.2/ui-hot-ranges-page.md %}). This was because the [transaction record]({% link v24.2/architecture/transaction-layer.md %}#transaction-records) for all [ranges]({% link v24.2/architecture/reads-and-writes-overview.md %}#range) would coalesce on a single range, which would then cause this range's [leaseholder]({% link v24.2/architecture/reads-and-writes-overview.md %}#leaseholder) to perform all intent resolution work. This is fixed by distributing transaction records randomly across the ranges the write batch touches. In turn, hotspots are prevented. [#125744][#125744]
- `server.oidc_authentication.client.timeout`: The new [cluster setting]({% link v24.2/cluster-settings.md %}#setting-server-oidc-authentication-client-timeout) `server.oidc_authentication.client.timeout` allows configuration of the HTTP client timeout for external requests made during [OIDC authentication]({% link v24.2/sso-db-console.md %}). The default timeout is 30 seconds. [#125767][#125767]
- `sql.auth.grant_option_for_owner.enabled`: The new [cluster setting]({% link v24.2/cluster-settings.md %}) [`sql.auth.grant_option_for_owner.enabled`]({% link v24.2/cluster-settings.md %}#setting-sql-auth-grant-option-for-owner-enabled) controls whether the owner of an object has permission to grant permission on the object to other [users]({% link v24.2/security-reference/authorization.md %}#roles). When set to `true` (the default), the [`GRANT OPTION`]({% link v24.2/show-grants.md %}#privilege-grants) is implicitly granted to the object owner, who can grant permissions on the object to other users, preserving the existing behavior of CockroachDB. When set to `false`, the `GRANT OPTION` is not implicitly given to the owner of an object. The owner's permissions do not change, but they can no longer grant permissions to others unless the `GRANT OPTION` is granted to them explicitly.  [#126960][#126960]
- `sql.auth.grant_option_inheritance.enabled`: Added the [`sql.auth.grant_option_inheritance.enabled` cluster setting]({% link v24.2/cluster-settings.md %}#setting-sql-auth-grant-option-inheritance-enabled). The default value is `true`, which maintains consistency with CockroachDB's previous behavior: users granted a privilege with [`WITH GRANT OPTION`]({% link v24.2/grant.md %}) can in turn grant that privilege to others. When `sql.auth.grant_option_inheritance.enabled` is set to `false`, the `GRANT OPTION` is not inherited through role membership, thereby preventing descendant roles from granting the privilege to others. However, the privilege itself continues to be inherited through role membership. [#125590][#125590]
- `storage.sstable.compression_algorithm_backup_storage`, `storage.sstable.compression_algorithm_backup_transport`: Added two new [cluster settings]({% link v24.2/cluster-settings.md %}), `storage.sstable.compression_algorithm_backup_storage` and `storage.sstable.compression_algorithm_backup_transport`, which in addition to the existing cluster setting `storage.sstable.compression_algorithm`, can be used to alter the compression algorithm used for various types of [SSTs]({% link v24.2/architecture/storage-layer.md %}#ssts). [#124245][#124245]

<h5 id="v24-2-0-settings-removed">Settings removed</h5>

- `kv.rangefeed.range_stuck_threshold`: Removed the stuck rangefeed cancel feature and its related [cluster setting]({% link v24.2/cluster-settings.md %}) `kv.rangefeed.range_stuck_threshold`, because it was only available in [non-mux rangefeeds]({% link v24.2/advanced-changefeed-configuration.md %}#mux-rangefeeds). Previously, the stuck rangefeed cancel feature was introduced to restart single rangefeeds automatically if they had not received KV updates for some time. [#125663][#125663]
- `storage.value_blocks.enabled`: The `storage.value_blocks.enabled` [cluster setting]({% link v24.2/cluster-settings.md %}) has been removed; value blocks are always enabled. [#122164][#122164]

<h5 id="v24-2-0-settings-with-changed-defaults">Settings with changed defaults</h5>

- `kv.dist_sender.circuit_breakers.mode` has had its default changed to `liveness range only = 1`.
- `sql.defaults.results_buffer.size` has had its default changed to `512 KiB`: The default value of the `sql.defaults.results_buffer.size` [cluster setting]({% link v24.2/cluster-settings.md %}) has been changed from 16KiB to 512KiB. This reduces the chance that clients using [`READ COMMITTED`]({% link v24.2/read-committed.md %}) transactions will encounter errors that cannot automatically be retried within CockroachDB. [#124633][#124633]
- `sql.metrics.max_mem_stmt_fingerprints` and `sql.metrics.max_mem_txn_fingerprints` have had their defaults changed to `7500`: The default values for the [cluster settings]({% link v24.2/cluster-settings.md %}) `sql.metrics.max_mem_stmt_fingerprints` and `sql.metrics.max_mem_txn_fingerprints` have been changed from `100000` to `7500`, thus lowering the default limits for in-memory statement and transaction fingerprints. [#123430][#123430]
- `sql.stats.histogram_samples.count` has had its default changed to `0`: Histograms are no longer constructed using a default sample size of `10k`. Samples are now sized dynamically based on table size unless the sample count has been set in the table or [cluster settings]({% link v24.2/cluster-settings.md %}). [#125345][#125345]
- `sql.ttl.default_delete_rate_limit` has had its default changed to `100`: The storage parameter `ttl_delete_rate_limit`, which determines the rate limit for deleting expired rows, is now set to `100` by default. [#124354][#124354]

<h5 id="v24-2-0-settings-with-new-options">Settings with new options</h5>

- `storage.sstable.compression_algorithm` has added the option `none = 3`: The compression option `none` was added to allow for the disabling of SSTable compression. This option is disabled by default, but can can be used with any of the three existing cluster settings that control SSTable compression: `storage.sstable.compression_algorithm`, `storage.sstable.compression_algorithm_backup_storage`, and `storage.sstable.compression_algorithm_backup_transport`. [#126508][#126508]

<h5 id="v24-2-0-settings-with-new-aliases">Settings with new aliases</h5>

- `changefeed.batch_reduction_retry.enabled` is aliased to `changefeed.batch_reduction_retry_enabled`.
- `kv.closed_timestamp.follower_reads.enabled` is aliased to `kv.closed_timestamp.follower_reads_enabled`.
- `kv.range_split.by_load.enabled` is aliased to `kv.range_split.by_load_enabled`.
- `kv.transaction.write_pipelining.enabled` is aliased to `kv.transaction.write_pipelining_enabled`.
- `kv.transaction.write_pipelining.max_batch_size` is aliased to `kv.transaction.write_pipelining_max_batch_size`.
- `physical_replication.consumer.minimum_flush_interval` is aliased to `builkio.stream_ingestion.minimum_flush_interval`.
- `server.clock.forward_jump_check.enabled` is aliased to `server.clock.forward_jump_check_enabled`.
- `server.oidc_authentication.autologin.enabled` is aliased to `server.oidc_authentication.autologin`.
- `server.shutdown.connections.timeout` is aliased to `server.shutdown.connection_wait`.
- `server.shutdown.initial_wait` is aliased to `server.shutdown.drain_wait`.
- `server.shutdown.jobs.timeout` is aliased to `server.shutdown.jobs_wait`.
- `server.shutdown.lease_transfer_iteration.timeout` is aliased to `server.shutdown.lease_transfer_wait`.
- `server.shutdown.transactions.timeout` is aliased to `server.shutdown.query_wait`.
- `server.web_session.timeout` is aliased to `server.web_session_timeout`.
- `spanconfig.range_coalescing.application.enabled` is aliased to `spanconfig.tenant_coalesce_adjacent.enabled`.
- `spanconfig.range_coalescing.system.enabled` is aliased to `spanconfig.storage_coalesce_adjacent.enabled`.
- `sql.log.all_statements.enabled` is aliased to `sql.trace.log_statement_execute`.
- `sql.metrics.statement_details.dump_to_logs.enabled` is aliased to `sql.metrics.statement_details.dump_to_logs`.
- `trace.debug_http_endpoint.enabled` is aliased to `trace.debug.enable`.

<h4 id="v24-2-0-known-limitations">Known limitations</h4>

For information about new and unresolved limitations in CockroachDB v24.2, with suggested workarounds where applicable, refer to [Known Limitations]({% link v24.2/known-limitations.md %}).

<h4 id="v24-2-0-additional-resources">Additional resources</h4>

Resource             | Topic                                      | Description
---------------------+--------------------------------------------+-------------
Cockroach University | [Introduction to Distributed SQL and CockroachDB](https://university.cockroachlabs.com/courses/course-v1:crl+intro-to-distributed-sql-and-cockroachdb+self-paced/about) | This course introduces the core concepts behind distributed SQL databases and describes how CockroachDB fits into this landscape. You will learn what differentiates CockroachDB from both legacy SQL and NoSQL databases and how CockroachDB ensures consistent transactions without sacrificing scale and resiliency. You'll learn about CockroachDB's seamless horizontal scalability, distributed transactions with strict ACID guarantees, and high availability and resilience.
Cockroach University | [Practical First Steps with CockroachDB](https://university.cockroachlabs.com/courses/course-v1:crl+practical-first-steps-with-crdb+self-paced/about) | This course will give you the tools you need to get started with CockroachDB. During the course, you will learn how to spin up a cluster, use the Admin UI to monitor cluster activity, and use SQL shell to solve a set of hands-on exercises.
Cockroach University | [Enterprise Application Development with CockroachDB](https://university.cockroachlabs.com/courses/course-v1:crl+client-side-txn-handling+self-paced/about) | This course is the first in a series designed to equip you with best practices for mastering application-level (client-side) transaction management in CockroachDB. We'll dive deep on common differences between CockroachDB and legacy SQL databases and help you sidestep challenges you might encounter when migrating to CockroachDB from Oracle, PostgreSQL, and MySQL.
Cockroach University | [Building a Highly Resilient Multi-region Database using CockroachDB](https://university.cockroachlabs.com/courses/course-v1:crl+intro-to-resilience-in-multi-region+self-paced/about) | This course is part of a series introducing solutions to running low-latency, highly resilient applications for data-intensive workloads on CockroachDB. In this course we focus on surviving large-scale infrastructure failures like losing an entire cloud region without losing data during recovery. We'll show you how to use CockroachDB survival goals in a multi-region cluster to implement a highly resilient database that survives node or network failures across multiple regions with zero data loss.
Docs                 | [Migration Overview]({% link v24.2/migration-overview.md %}) | This page summarizes the steps of migrating a database to CockroachDB, which include testing and updating your schema to work with CockroachDB, moving your data into CockroachDB, and testing and updating your application.
Docs                 | [Architecture Overview](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v24.2/architecture/overview) | This page provides a starting point for understanding the architecture and design choices that enable CockroachDB's scalability and consistency capabilities.
Docs                 | [SQL Feature Support]({% link v24.2/sql-feature-support.md %}) | The page summarizes the standard SQL features CockroachDB supports as well as common extensions to the standard.
Docs                 | [Change Data Capture Overview]({% link v24.2/change-data-capture-overview.md %}) | This page summarizes CockroachDB's data streaming capabilities. Change data capture (CDC) provides efficient, distributed, row-level changefeeds into a configurable sink for downstream processing such as reporting, caching, or full-text indexing.
Docs                 | [Backup Architecture]({% link v24.2/backup-architecture.md %}) | This page describes the backup job workflow with a high-level overview, diagrams, and more details on each phase of the job.

[#115166]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115166
[#113893]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/113893
[#115166]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115166
[#122368]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122368
[#116664]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/116664
[#120509]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/120509
[#118781]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118781
[#117729]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117729
[#120255]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/120255
[#123430]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123430
[#124633]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124633
[#124354]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124354
