## v24.2.10

Release Date: February 6, 2025

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v24-2-10-general-changes">General changes</h3>

- The protected timestamp (PTS) records of running changefeeds are now updated when the set of targets changes, such as when system tables are added to the protected tables list.

<h3 id="v24-2-10-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- The `legacy_varchar_typing` session setting has been added, which reverts the changes of that cause the change in typing behavior described in. Specifically, it makes type-checking and overload resolution ignore the newly added "unpreferred" overloads. This setting defaults to `on`.
- Since v23.2 table statistics histograms had been collected for non-indexed JSON columns. Histograms are no longer collected for these columns if the `sql.stats.non_indexed_json_histograms.enabled` cluster setting is set to `false`. This reduces memory usage during table statistics collection, for both automatic and manual collection via `ANALYZE` and `CREATE STATISTICS`.
- Added support for a new index hint, `AVOID_FULL_SCAN`, which will prevent the optimizer from planning a full scan for the specified table if any other plan is possible. The hint can be used in the same way as other existing index hints. For example, `SELECT * FROM table_name@{AVOID_FULL_SCAN};`. This hint is similar to `NO_FULL_SCAN`, but will not error if a full scan cannot be avoided. Note that normally a full scan of a partial index would not be considered a "full scan" for the purposes of the `NO_FULL_SCAN` and `AVOID_FULL_SCAN` hints, but if the user has explicitly forced the partial index via `FORCE_INDEX=index_name`, CockroachDB does consider it a full scan.
- Added the `optimizer_prefer_bounded_cardinality` session setting, which instructs the optimizer to prefer query plans where every expression has a guaranteed upper-bound on the number of rows it will process. This may help the optimizer produce better query plans in some cases. This setting is disabled by default.
- Added the `optimizer_min_row_count` session setting, which sets a lower bound on row count estimates for relational expressions during query planning. A value of `0`, which is the default, indicates no lower bound. Note that if this is set to a value greater than `0`, a row count of zero can still be estimated for expressions with a cardinality of zero, e.g., for a contradictory filter. Setting this to a value higher than `0`, such as `1`, may yield better query plans in some cases, such as when statistics are frequently stale and inaccurate.

<h3 id="v24-2-10-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- Schema object identifiers (e.g., database names, schema names, table names, function names, and type names) are no longer redacted when logging statements in the `EXEC` or `SQL_SCHEMA` log channels. If redaction of these names is required, then the new cluster setting `sql.log.redact_names.enabled` can be set to `true`. The default value of the setting is `false`.
- Added a metric, `sql.schema_changer.object_count`, that keeps track of the count of schema objects in the cluster.
- The `changefeed.max_behind_nanos` metric now supports scoping with metrics labels.

<h3 id="v24-2-10-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- `CLOSE CURSOR` statements are now allowed in read-only transactions, similar to PostgreSQL. This bug had been present since at least v23.1.
- `ALTER BACKUP SCHEDULE` no longer fails on schedules whose collection URI contains a space.
- Previously, `SHOW CREATE TABLE` was showing incorrect data with regard to inverted indexes. It now shows the correct data in a format that can be repeatedly entered back into CockroachDB to recreate the same table.
- Fixed a timing issue between `ALTER VIEW .. RENAME` and `DROP VIEW` that caused repeated failures in the `DROP VIEW` job.
- Fixed a bug where querying the `pg_catalog.pg_constraint` table while the schema changer was dropping a constraint could result in a query error.
- Queries that perform a cast from the string representation of an array containing `GEOMETRY` or `GEOGRAPHY` types to a SQL `ARRAY` type will now succeed.
- Fixed a bug where secondary tenants could fatal when issuing HTTP requests during tenant startup.
- Fixed a bug where CockroachDB could encounter an internal error `comparison of two different versions of enum` in some cases when a user-defined type was modified within a transaction and subsequent statements read the column of that user-defined type. The bug was introduced in v24.2.
- When the session variable `allow_role_memberships_to_change_during_transaction` is set, it is now possible to create and drop users quickly even when there are contending transactions on the `system.users` and `system.role_options` system tables.
- Fixed a bug where the error `batch timestamp ... must be after replica GC threshold` could occur during a schema change backfill operation, and cause the schema change job to retry infinitely. Now this error is treated as permanent, and will cause the job to enter the `failed` state.
