## v24.2.0-rc.1

Release Date: August 6, 2024

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v24-2-0-rc-1-{{-site.data.products.enterprise-}}-edition-changes">{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} edition changes</h3>

- Add a new Kafka sink utilizing the franz-go library and our own batching_sink behind a cluster setting (`changefeed.new_kafka_sink_enabled`, disabled by default). [#127899][#127899]
- The v2 kafka sink now supports MSK IAM SASL authentication. [#127899][#127899]

<h3 id="v24-2-0-rc-1-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- The databases and tables pages in the DB Console will show a loading state while loading information for databases and tables including size and range counts. [#127696][#127696]
- In the DB details page, the table name will no longer appear with quotes around the schema and table name. [#127770][#127770]

<h3 id="v24-2-0-rc-1-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- A bug has been fixed that caused a memory leak when executing SQL statements with comments, for example, `SELECT /* comment */ 1;`. Memory owned by a SQL session would continue to grow as these types of statements were executed. The memory would only be released when closing the SQL session. This bug has been present since version 23.1. [#127760][#127760]
- This patch fixes the bug where debug zip is giving error while fetching unstructured/malformed logs. [#127883][#127883]
- Fixed small memory leaks that occur during changefeed creation. [#127899][#127899]
- This patch fixes a known limitation in which fast failback could fail. It leads us to protect data for the default protection window of 4 hours on both the source and the destination. [#127892][#127892]

<h3 id="v24-2-0-rc-1-doc-updates">Doc updates</h3>

{% comment %}Docs team: Please add these manually.{% endcomment %}

<div class="release-note-contributors" markdown="1">

<h3 id="v24-2-0-rc-1-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 29 merged PRs by 21 authors.
We would like to thank the following contributors from the CockroachDB community:

- Darryl Wong (first-time contributor, CockroachDB team member)
- David Hartunian (first-time contributor, CockroachDB team member)

</div>

[#127696]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/127696
[#127760]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/127760
[#127770]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/127770
[#127883]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/127883
[#127892]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/127892
[#127899]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/127899
