## v24.2.0-alpha.1

Release Date: July 1, 2024

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v24-2-0-alpha-1-general-changes">General changes</h3>

- The following [metrics]({% link v24.2/metrics.md %}) were added for observability into the source of [disk writes]({% link v24.2/common-issues-to-monitor.md %}#storage-and-disk-i-o):
    - `storage.category-pebble-wal.bytes-written`
    - `storage.category-pebble-compaction.bytes-written`
    - `storage.category-pebble-ingestion.bytes-written`
    - `storage.category-pebble-memtable-flush.bytes-written`
    - `storage.category-raft-snapshot.bytes-written`
    - `storage.category-encryption-registry.bytes-written`
    - `storage.category-crdb-log.bytes-written`
    - `storage.category-sql-row-spill.bytes-written`
    - `storage.category-sql-col-spill.bytes-written`
    - `storage.category-unspecified.bytes-written` [#119024][#119024]
- The `storage.value_blocks.enabled` [cluster setting]({% link v24.2/cluster-settings.md %}) has been removed; value blocks are always enabled. [#122164][#122164]
- The following [metrics]({% link v24.2/metrics.md %}) were added for improved observability into [disk bandwidth]({% link v24.2/common-issues-to-monitor.md %}#storage-and-disk-i-o):
    - `storage.disk.read-max.bytespersecond`
    - `storage.disk.write-max.bytespersecond` [#121553][#121553]
- Added two new [cluster settings]({% link v24.2/cluster-settings.md %}), `storage.sstable.compression_algorithm_backup_storage` and `storage.sstable.compression_algorithm_backup_transport`, which in addition to the existing cluster setting `storage.sstable.compression_algorithm`, can be used to alter the compression algorithm used for various types of [SSTs]({% link v24.2/architecture/storage-layer.md %}#ssts). [#124245][#124245]

<h3 id="v24-2-0-alpha-1-{{-site.data.products.enterprise-}}-edition-changes">{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} edition changes</h3>

- `SHOW CHANGEFEED JOB`, [`SHOW CHANGEFEED JOBS`]({% link v24.2/show-jobs.md %}#show-changefeed-jobs), and [`SHOW JOBS`]({% link v24.2/show-jobs.md %}) no longer expose user sensitive information like `client_key`. [#122529][#122529]
- Added the new option [`encode_json_value_null_as_object`]({% link v24.2/create-changefeed.md %}#encode-json-value-null-as-object) to JSON-formatted [changefeeds]({% link v24.2/change-data-capture-overview.md %}) that outputs `'null'::jsonb` as `{"__crdb_json_null__": true}` instead of `null`, to disambiguate between SQL-null and JSON-null. With this option enabled, if the literal value `{"__crdb_json_null__": true}` is present in a JSON value, it will have the same representation as JSON-null with this option enabled. If such a value is encountered in a changefeed, a (rate-limited) warning will be printed to the [`DEV` channel]({% link v24.2/logging.md %}). [#122848][#122848]
- Added an error message for [changefeed]({% link v24.2/change-data-capture-overview.md %}) options and parameters that are not supported by the [Apache Pulsar sink]({% link v24.2/changefeed-sinks.md %}#apache-pulsar). [#124581][#124581]
- [Scheduled changefeeds]({% link v24.2/create-schedule-for-changefeed.md %}) now pause after being [restored]({% link v24.2/restore.md %}) onto a different cluster, and after completion of [physical cluster replication]({% link v24.2/physical-cluster-replication-overview.md %}) to avoid inadvertent concurrent execution of the same schedule on multiple clusters. [#124631][#124631]
- The `DEBUG_PAUSE_ON` option has been removed and replaced with the `restore.restore_after_failure` [pause]({% link v24.2/pause-job.md %}) point to match other pause points used throughout CockroachDB. You can set this pause point by running: `SET CLUSTER SETTING jobs.debug.pausepoints = 'restore.after_restore_failure'`. [#125158][#125158]

<h3 id="v24-2-0-alpha-1-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- Default schema privilege changes will now be reflected and can be monitored in the [`pg_default_acl`]({% link v24.2/pg-catalog.md %}) table. [#121506][#121506]
- The schema of the [`pg_catalog.pg_proc`]({% link v24.2/pg-catalog.md %}) virtual table now matches exactly that of PostgreSQL versions 14–16. The following changes are applied:
    - `proisagg` and `proiswindow` columns are removed (done in v11).
    - `protransform` column is removed (done in v12).
    - `prosqlbody` column is added (done in v14).
    - `prosupport` and `prokind` columns are moved into their correct spot (these were incorrectly present at the end of the columns list). [#121966][#121966]
- Added [`SHOW EXTERNAL CONNECTIONS`]({% link v24.2/create-external-connection.md %}) and `SHOW EXTERNAL CONNECTION <connection name>`. These queries display redacted connection URIs and other useful information, such as the connection type. Access to these queries is restricted to the owner of the connection or users with `USAGE` privilege. `admin` or `root` users will have unrestricted access to all connections. [#123545][#123545]
- Using the [`CREATE STATISTICS`]({% link v24.2/create-statistics.md %}) query without the [`AS OF SYSTEM TIME`]({% link v24.2/as-of-system-time.md %}) option could contend with concurrent transactions and cost performance. Running `CREATE STATISTICS` without specifying `AS OF SYSTEM TIME` now uses a default of `-1us`. [#124488][#124488]
- The `nodes` field of the [`EXPLAIN ANALYZE`]({% link v24.2/explain-analyze.md %}) output has been renamed to `sql nodes` to clarify that this field describes SQL processing and it does not include any information about KV nodes that might have participated in the query execution. [#124681][#124681]
- [`EXPLAIN ANALYZE`]({% link v24.2/explain-analyze.md %}) output now has a new field `KV nodes` that includes all KV nodes that were used to serve read requests by a particular SQL operator. [#124681][#124681]
- Fixed the `Regions` field in the [`EXPLAIN ANALYZE`]({% link v24.2/explain-analyze.md %}) output to include regions of KV nodes. Previously, only regions of SQL nodes involved in query processing were included. [#124888][#124888]
- Allow [foreign keys]({% link v24.2/foreign-key.md %}) to be created over stored [computed columns]({% link v24.2/computed-columns.md %}). However, most `ON UPDATE` and `ON DELETE` options for foreign key constraints are not allowed with computed columns. Only `ON UPDATE (NO ACTION|RESTRICT)` and `ON DELETE (NO ACTION|RESTRICT|CASCADE)` are supported. [#124851][#124851]
- [`EXPLAIN ANALYZE`]({% link v24.2/explain-analyze.md %}) output now has a new field `used follower read` to SQL operators whenever their reads were served by the follower replicas. Previously, this information was only available in the trace. [#125152][#125152]
- The new attribute `historical: AS OF SYSTEM TIME ...` is now included in [`EXPLAIN ANALYZE`]({% link v24.2/explain-analyze.md %}) output whenever the query performs [historical reads]({% link v24.2/as-of-system-time.md %}). [#125152][#125152]
- [`EXPLAIN ANALYZE`]({% link v24.2/explain-analyze.md %}) statements are now supported when executed via UI SQL shell. [#125455][#125455]
- Histograms are no longer constructed using a default sample size of `10k`. Samples are now dynamically sized based on table size unless the sample count has been set in the table or [cluster settings]({% link v24.2/cluster-settings.md %}). [#125345][#125345]
- The [optimizer]({% link v24.2/cost-based-optimizer.md %}) will now generate plans utilizing partial indexes with `IS NOT NULL` predicates in more cases. [#125487][#125487]
- The [`SHOW TYPES`]({% link v24.2/show-types.md %}) statement now includes user-defined composite types. It omitted those types ever since composite types were added in v23.1. [#124730][#124730]
- Added the [`COMMENT ON TYPE`]({% link v24.2/comment-on.md %}) statement for implicit transactions. [#124942][#124942]

<h3 id="v24-2-0-alpha-1-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- Added a distinction between [row updates]({% link v24.2/changefeed-messages.md %}) (`row`) and [resolved timestamp]({% link v24.2/changefeed-messages.md %}#resolved-messages) (`resolved`) messages in some changefeed metrics. [#122645][#122645]
- Modified the default Grafana dashboards to include a breakdown by [message]({% link v24.2/changefeed-messages.md %}) type for the `changefeed_emitted_rows` [metric]({% link v24.2/monitor-and-debug-changefeeds.md %}). [#122802][#122802]
- Updated the generated doc descriptions for system visible [cluster settings]({% link v24.2/cluster-settings.md %}) to reflect these are read-only for CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.serverless }} and read-write for the other deployments. [#124028][#124028]
- Added the [cluster setting]({% link v24.2/cluster-settings.md %}) `debug.zip.redact_addresses.enabled` that allows the user to enable or disable redaction of fields like `hostname` and IP addresses. [#123544][#123544]
- Improved [disk usage metric]({% link v24.2/ui-storage-dashboard.md %}#capacity-metrics) reporting over volumes that dynamically change their size over the life of the `cockroach` process. [#124999][#124999]
- `crdb_internal.cluster_execution_insights.txt` and `crdb_internal.cluster_txn_execution_insights.txt` have been removed from the [debug zip]({% link v24.2/cockroach-debug-zip.md %}). These files contained cluster-wide insights for statements and transactions. Users can still rely on the[ per-node execution]({% link v24.2/cockroach-debug-zip.md %}#files) insights in `crdb_internal.node_execution_insights.txt` and `crdb_internal.node_txn_execution_insights.txt`. [#125654][#125654]
- Removed the stuck rangefeed cancel feature and its related [cluster setting]({% link v24.2/cluster-settings.md %}) `kv.rangefeed.range_stuck_threshold`, because it was only available in [non-mux rangefeeds]({% link v24.2/advanced-changefeed-configuration.md %}#mux-rangefeeds). Previously, the stuck rangefeed cancel feature was introduced to restart single rangefeeds automatically if they had not received KV updates for some time. [#125663][#125663]
- Fixed a bug where collection of debug information for very long-running [jobs]({% link v24.2/show-jobs.md %}) could use excessive space in the `job_info` system table and/or cause some interactions with the jobs system to become slow. [#126084][#126084]
- All system tables are now visible in application [virtual clusters]({% link v24.2/cluster-virtualization-overview.md %}) that were created before v24.1. [#125979][#125979]

<h3 id="v24-2-0-alpha-1-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- The **Goroutine Scheduling Latency** graph has been added to the [**Runtime** dasboard]({% link v24.2/ui-runtime-dashboard.md %}). [#121369][#121369]
- Updated the time format to use a `.` (dot) as separation between seconds and milliseconds, which affects many pages in the [DB Console]({% link v24.2/ui-overview.md %}). [#121456][#121456]
- The [**Storage** dashboard]({% link v24.2/ui-storage-dashboard.md %}) now contains a graph categorizing disk writes that contribute to `sys.host.disk.write.bytes` according to the source of the write (WAL, compactions, SSTable ingestion, memtable flushes, raft snapshots, encryption registry, logs, SQL columnar spill, or SQL row spill). [#119024][#119024]
- The favicon now renders properly for the [DB Console]({% link v24.2/ui-overview.md %}) along with other image files. [#121380][#121380]
- The color of **Unavailable Ranges** in the [**Summary** panel]({% link v24.2/ui-replication-dashboard.md %}#summary-panel) of the [**Replication** dashboard]({% link v24.2/ui-replication-dashboard.md %}) is now red when nonzero. [#123120][#123120]
- Removed the `$` sign on the [Databases]({% link v24.2/ui-databases-page.md %}) and [Jobs]({% link v24.2/ui-jobs-page.md %}) pages in the [DB Console]({% link v24.2/ui-overview.md %}). [#125370][#125370]
- Added two graphs to the [**Storage** dashboard]({% link v24.2/ui-storage-dashboard.md %}) that display count and size of L0 SSTables in [Pebble]({% link v24.2/architecture/storage-layer.md %}#pebble). This provides increased visibility into L0 compaction issues. [#125653][#125653]
- Removed the p95 metrics from the tooltip on the [**Job Latency**]({% link v24.2/ui-ttl-dashboard.md %}#job-latency) graph of the [**TTL** dashboard]({% link v24.2/ui-ttl-dashboard.md %}), because there are no p95 values computed for any of the metrics. [#122345][#122345]
- Updated the [**Storage** dashboard]({% link v24.2/ui-storage-dashboard.md %}) graphs to show most metrics on a [per-store]({% link v24.2/architecture/storage-layer.md %}) basis when viewing a single node's metrics. This provides increased visibility into issues caused by specific stores on each node. [#125699][#125699]

<h3 id="v24-2-0-alpha-1-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a crash introduced in v23.2.5 and v24.1.0-beta.2 that could occur when planning [statistics collection]({% link v24.2/cost-based-optimizer.md %}#table-statistics) on a table with a [virtual computed column]({% link v24.2/computed-columns.md %}) using a user-defined type when the newly introduced [cluster setting]({% link v24.2/cluster-settings.md %}) `sql.stats.virtual_computed_columns.enabled` is set to `true`. This setting was introduced in v23.2.4 and v24.1.0-alpha.1. [#123926][#123926]
- Fixed handling in the [declarative schema changer]({% link v24.2/online-schema-changes.md %}#declarative-schema-changer) when columns are included in the [`STORING()`]({% link v24.2/create-index.md %}#store-columns) clause of [`CREATE INDEX`]({% link v24.2/create-index.md %}). It now checks if the column is [virtual]({% link v24.2/computed-columns.md %}) beforehand, and properly detects when a column is already handled by an existing index when the column name has UTF-8 characters. [#124981][#124981]
- Fixed an issue where [adding a column]({% link v24.2/alter-table.md %}#add-column) with a default value of an empty array would not succeed. [#125284][#125284]
- [`ALTER TABLE ... ADD CONSTRAINT UNIQUE`]({% link v24.2/alter-table.md %}) will now fail with a well-formed error message and code `42601` if a statement tries to add a [`UNIQUE` constraint]({% link v24.2/unique.md %}) on an expression. [#125282][#125282]
- Resolved a log message that read: `expiration of liveness record ... is not greater than expiration of the previous lease ... after liveness heartbeat`. This message is no longer possible. [#124885][#124885]
- Fixed a bug in v24.1, v23.2, and v23.1 where using the `changefeed.aggregator.flush_jitter` [cluster setting]({% link v24.2/cluster-settings.md %}) with [`min_checkpoint_frequency`]({% link v24.2/create-changefeed.md %}#min-checkpoint-frequency) set to `0` could cause panics. [#125317][#125317]
- Fixed a bug where the [`public` schema]({% link v24.2/sql-name-resolution.md %}#naming-hierarchy) would be created with the wrong owner. Previously, the [`admin` role]({% link v24.2/security-reference/authorization.md %}#admin-role) would own the `public` schema. Now the database owner is also the owner of the `public` schema. The ownership can be altered after the schema is created. [#124894][#124894]
- Previously, CockroachDB would hit an internal error when evaluating inserts into [`REGIONAL BY ROW`]({% link v24.2/table-localities.md %}#regional-by-row-tables) tables where the source is a [`VALUES`]({% link v24.2/insert.md %}#insert-default-values) clause with a single row and at least one boolean expression. The bug was introduced in v23.2.0 and is now fixed. [#125492][#125492]
- Fixed a bug in [logging]({% link v24.2/logging.md %}) where an error code was misreported for canceled queries. This bug affected the [`SQL_PERF`]({% link v24.2/logging.md %}#sql_perf) (slow query logs) and [`SQL_EXEC`]({% link v24.2/logging.md %}#sql_exec) (sql exec logs) logging channels. [#124371][#124371]
- Fixed a bug in which constant `LIKE` patterns containing certain sequences of backslashes did not become constrained scans. This bug has been present since v21.1.13 when support for building constrained scans from `LIKE` patterns containing backslashes was added. [#125507][#125507]
- Fixed a bug introduced in v22.1 where [`cockroach-sql`]({% link v24.2/cockroach-sql-binary.md %}) does not recognize the [`--format`]({% link v24.2/cockroach-sql-binary.md %}#flags) flag. [#124735][#124735]
- Fixed a bug where [`CREATE TABLE`]({% link v24.2/create-table.md %}) with [index expressions]({% link v24.2/expression-indexes.md %}) could hit undefined column errors on [transaction retries]({% link v24.2/transactions.md %}#transaction-retries). [#125910][#125910]
- Fixed a bug where some DDL and administrative statements used within a [common table expression]({% link v24.2/common-table-expressions.md %}) would fail with an `unrecognized relational expression type` internal error. [#125959][#125959]
- Fixed a bug in [`cockroach debug tsdump`]({% link v24.2/cockroach-debug-tsdump.md %}) where the command fails when a custom SQL port is used and the [`--format=raw`]({% link v24.2/cockroach-debug-tsdump.md %}#flags) flag is provided. [#125626][#125626]
- Attempts to alter the data type of a column used in a [computed column]({% link v24.2/computed-columns.md %}) expression are now blocked. [#125870][#125870]
- Fixed the statistics estimation code in the [optimizer]({% link v24.2/cost-based-optimizer.md %}) so it does not use the empty histograms produced if [histogram collection]({% link v24.2/cost-based-optimizer.md %}#control-histogram-collection) has been disabled during stats collection due to excessive memory utilization. Now the optimizer will rely on distinct counts instead of the empty histograms and should produce better plans as a result. This bug has existed since CockroachDB v22.1. [#125968][#125968]

<h3 id="v24-2-0-alpha-1-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- More efficient [query plans]({% link v24.2/cost-based-optimizer.md %}) are now generated for queries with [text similarity filters]({% link v24.2/trigram-indexes.md %}#how-do-trigram-indexes-work), e.g., `text_col % 'foobar'`. These plans are generated if the `optimizer_use_trigram_similarity_optimization` [session setting]({% link v24.2/session-variables.md %}) is enabled, which it is by default. This setting is disabled by default in previous versions. [#121973][#121973]
- [Schema changes]({% link v24.2/online-schema-changes.md %}) that cause a data backfill, such as adding a non-nullable column or changing the primary key, will now split and scatter the temporary indexes used to perform the change. This reduces the chance of causing a write hotspot that can slow down foreground traffic. [#120736][#120736]
- Multiple or large numbers of [grants]({% link v24.2/show-grants.md %}) on tables and types within one [transaction]({% link v24.2/transactions.md %}) now run faster. [#123414][#123414]
- [Lock operations]({% link v24.2/architecture/transaction-layer.md %}#writes-and-reads-phase-1) are now removed from [query plans]({% link v24.2/cost-based-optimizer.md %}) when the optimizer can prove that no rows would be locked. [#124830][#124830]
- Some privilege checks when scanning the [`crdb_internal.system_jobs`]({% link v24.2/crdb-internal.md %}) internal table now happen once before the scan, instead of once for each row. This will improve performance for queries that read from `crdb_internal.system_jobs`. [#117438][#117438]
- Improved the initial range descriptor scan on startup. [Node startup]({% link v24.2/cockroach-start.md %}) should now be faster on larger stores. [#123959][#123959]
- Previously, concurrent transactions that constructed large write batches could cause [hotspots]({% link v24.2/ui-hot-ranges-page.md %}). This was because the [transaction record]({% link v24.2/architecture/transaction-layer.md %}#transaction-records) for all [ranges]({% link v24.2/architecture/reads-and-writes-overview.md %}#range) would coalesce on a single range, which would then cause this range's [leaseholder]({% link v24.2/architecture/reads-and-writes-overview.md %}#leaseholder) to perform all intent resolution work. This is fixed by distributing transaction records randomly across the ranges the write batch touches. In turn, hotspots are prevented. [#125744][#125744]

<h3 id="v24-2-0-alpha-1-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 1234 merged PRs by 97 authors.

</div>

[#117438]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117438
[#119024]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/119024
[#120736]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/120736
[#121293]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/121293
[#121318]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/121318
[#121369]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/121369
[#121380]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/121380
[#121456]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/121456
[#121506]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/121506
[#121553]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/121553
[#121609]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/121609
[#121709]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/121709
[#121966]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/121966
[#121973]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/121973
[#122024]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122024
[#122045]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122045
[#122164]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122164
[#122210]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122210
[#122345]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122345
[#122529]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122529
[#122645]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122645
[#122802]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122802
[#122848]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122848
[#123089]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123089
[#123120]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123120
[#123145]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123145
[#123155]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123155
[#123350]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123350
[#123381]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123381
[#123414]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123414
[#123544]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123544
[#123545]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123545
[#123601]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123601
[#123619]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123619
[#123650]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123650
[#123791]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123791
[#123799]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123799
[#123827]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123827
[#123926]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123926
[#123959]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123959
[#123961]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123961
[#124010]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124010
[#124028]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124028
[#124053]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124053
[#124099]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124099
[#124241]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124241
[#124245]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124245
[#124289]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124289
[#124322]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124322
[#124371]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124371
[#124401]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124401
[#124409]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124409
[#124488]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124488
[#124581]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124581
[#124598]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124598
[#124604]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124604
[#124613]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124613
[#124628]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124628
[#124630]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124630
[#124631]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124631
[#124664]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124664
[#124681]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124681
[#124721]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124721
[#124730]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124730
[#124788]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124788
[#124830]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124830
[#124851]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124851
[#124885]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124885
[#124888]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124888
[#124894]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124894
[#124896]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124896
[#124942]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124942
[#124971]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124971
[#124981]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124981
[#124999]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124999
[#125152]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/125152
[#125158]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/125158
[#125282]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/125282
[#125284]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/125284
[#125317]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/125317
[#125345]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/125345
[#125370]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/125370
[#125455]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/125455
[#125468]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/125468
[#125487]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/125487
[#125492]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/125492
[#125507]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/125507
[#125626]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/125626
[#125653]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/125653
[#125654]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/125654
[#125663]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/125663
[#125699]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/125699
[#125870]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/125870
[#125959]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/125959
[#125968]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/125968
[#126084]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/126084
[#125744]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/125744
[#125979]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/125979