## v24.2.6

Release Date: December 12, 2024

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v24-2-6-security-updates">Security updates</h3>

- All cluster settings that accept strings are now fully redacted when transmitted as part of diagnostics telemetry. This payload includes a record of modified cluster settings and their values when they are not strings. Customers who previously applied the mitigations in [Technical Advisory 133479]({% link advisories/a133479.md %}) can safely set the value of cluster setting `server.redact_sensitive_settings.enabled` to false and turn on diagnostic reporting via the `diagnostics.reporting.enabled` cluster setting without leaking sensitive cluster settings values.

<h3 id="v24-2-6-general-changes">General changes</h3>

- `COCKROACH_SKIP_ENABLING_DIAGNOSTIC_REPORTING` is no longer mentioned in the `cockroach demo` command.
- Added `system.users` to the list of system tables that changefeeds protect with protected timestamps. This table is required for change data capture queries.

<h3 id="v24-2-6-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- The `goschedstats.always_use_short_sample_period.enabled` setting should be set to true for any production cluster, to prevent unnecessary queuing in admission control CPU queues.
- Added a new cluster setting `ui.database_locality_metadata.enabled` that allows operators to disable loading extended database and table region information in the DB Console Database and Table pages. This information can cause significant CPU load on large clusters with many ranges. Versions of this page from v24.3 and later do not have this problem. If customers require this data, they can use the `SHOW RANGES FROM {DATABASE| TABLE}` query via SQL to compute on-demand.
- Row-level TTL jobs now periodically log progress by showing the number of table spans that have been processed so far.

<h3 id="v24-2-6-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug that caused non-reusable query plans, e.g., plans for DDL and `SHOW ...` statements, to be cached and reused in future executions, possibly causing stale results to be returned. This bug only occurred when `plan_cache_mode` was set to `auto` or `force_generic_plan`, both of which are not currently the default settings.
- Previously, CockroachDB could encounter an internal error of the form `interface conversion: coldata.Column is` in an edge case and this is now fixed. The bug is present in v22.2.13+, v23.1.9+, v23.2+.
- Fixed a bug that caused incorrect `NOT NULL` constraint violation errors on `UPSERT` and `INSERT .. ON CONFLICT .. DO UPDATE` statements when those statements updated an existing row and a subset of columns that did not include a `NOT NULL` column of the table. This bug has been present since at least v20.1.0.
- Fixed an unhandled error that could occur when using `REVOKE ... ON SEQUENCE FROM ... user` on an object that is not a sequence.
- Addressed a panic inside `CREATE TABLE AS` if sequence builtin expressions had invalid function overloads.
- `STRING`constants can now be compared against collated strings.
- When executing queries with index / lookup joins when the ordering needs to be maintained, previously CockroachDB could experience increased query latency, possibly by several orders of magnitude. This bug was introduced in v22.2 and is now fixed.
- Fixed a minor bug where `DISCARD ALL` statements were counted under the `sql.ddl.count` metric. Now these will be counted under the `sql.misc.count` metric.
- Addressed a bug with `DROP CASCADE` that would occasionally panic with an undropped `backref` message on partitioned tables.
- Reduced the duration of partitions in the gossip network when a node crashes in order to eliminate false positives in the `ranges.unavailable` metric.
- Non-`admin` users that run `DROP ROLE IF EXISTS` on a user that does not exist will no longer receive an error message.
- Fixed a bug that caused quotes around the name of a routine to be dropped when it was called within another routine. This could prevent the correct routine from being resolved if the nested routine name was case sensitive. The bug has existed since v24.1, when nested routines were introduced.
- Fixed a bug that could cause incorrect query results when the optimizer planned a lookup join on an index containing a column of type `CHAR(N)`, `VARCHAR(N)`, `BIT(N)`, `VARBIT(N)`, or `DECIMAL(M, N)`, and the query held that column constant to a single value (e.g., with an equality filter).
- Fixed an unhandled error that would occur if `DROP SCHEMA` was executed on the `public` schema of the `system` database, or on an internal schema like `pg_catalog` or `information_schema`.
- Fixed a bug that caused incorrect evaluation of some binary expressions involving `CHAR(N)` values and untyped string literals with trailing whitespace characters. For example, the expression `'f'::CHAR = 'f '` now correctly evaluates to `true`.
- Fixed a bug where `ALTER DATABASE` operations that modify the zone config would hang if an invalid zone config already exists.
- `CREATE SCHEMA` now returns the correct error if a the schema name is missing.
- Using more than one `DECLARE` statment in the definition of a user-defined function now correctly declares additional variables.
- Fixed a bug where CockroachDB would encounter an internal error when evaluating `FETCH ABSOLUTE 0` statements. The bug has been present since v22.1.
- Fixed an issue where corrupted table statistics could cause the `cockroach` process to crash.
- Fixed a bug that causes the optimizer to use stale table statistics after altering an `ENUM` type used in the table.
