## v24.2.0-alpha.2

Release Date: July 10, 2024

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v24-2-0-alpha-2-general-changes">General changes</h3>

- The compression option `none` was added to allow for the disabling of SSTable compression. This option can be used with any of the three existing cluster settings that control SSTable compression:
  - [`storage.sstable.compression_algorithm`]({% link v24.2/cluster-settings.md %}#setting-storage-sstable-compression-algorithm)
  - [`storage.sstable.compression_algorithm_backup_storage`]({% link v24.2/cluster-settings.md %}#setting-storage-sstable-compression-algorithm-backup-storage)
  - [`storage.sstable.compression_algorithm_backup_transport`]({% link v24.2/cluster-settings.md %}#setting-storage-sstable-compression-algorithm-backup-transport)

<h3 id="v24-2-0-alpha-2-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- Added the [`sql.auth.grant_option_inheritance.enabled` cluster setting]({% link v24.2/cluster-settings.md %}#setting-sql-auth-grant-option-inheritance-enabled). The default value is `true`, which maintains consistency with CockroachDB's previous behavior: users granted a privilege with [`WITH GRANT OPTION`]({% link v24.2/grant.md %}) can in turn grant that privilege to others. When `sql.auth.grant_option_inheritance.enabled` is set to `false`, the `GRANT OPTION` is not inherited through role membership, thereby preventing descendant roles from granting the privilege to others. However, the privilege itself continues to be inherited through role membership.
- The [`pg_catalog.pg_attribute`]({% link v24.2/pg-catalog.md %}) table now has a column named `attishidden`, which indicates if the table column or attribute is [`NOT VISIBLE`]({% link v24.2/create-table.md %}#not-visible-property).

<h3 id="v24-2-0-alpha-2-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug that could cause internal errors when a [routine]({% link v24.2/user-defined-functions.md %}) had polymorphic parameters or a polymorphic return type or both. The bug has existed since v22.2 when [user-defined functions (UDFs)]({% link v24.2/user-defined-functions.md %}) were introduced.
- In [`SHOW CREATE`]({% link v24.2/show-create.md %}) output, the name of an [enum type]({% link v24.2/enum.md %}) is now formatted as a two-part name (`schema.enum_type`) instead of a three-part name (`database.schema.enum_type`). This change makes it easier to apply the output with enum types to other databases.
- When [altering the data type of columns]({% link v24.2/alter-table.md %}#alter-column) with the [hidden attribute (`NOT VISIBLE`)]({% link v24.2/create-table.md %}#not-visible-property), the alteration now preserves the hidden attribute in the column. Additionally, type alterations for columns with [`ON UPDATE`]({% link v24.2/create-table.md %}#on-update-expressions) expressions or [`DEFAULT`]({% link v24.2/default-value.md %}) expressions are now allowed.
- Fixed a bug where a [user-defined function (UDF)]({% link v24.2/user-defined-functions.md %}) that shared a name with a [built-in function]({% link v24.2/functions-and-operators.md %}#built-in-functions) would not be resolved, even if the UDF had higher precedence according to the [`search_path`]({% link v24.2/sql-name-resolution.md %}#search-path) variable.
- Expressions of type [`BYTES[]`]({% link v24.2/bytes.md %}) are now correctly formatted in [`pg_catalog`]({% link v24.2/pg-catalog.md %}) tables.
- Fixed a bug that could cause spurious user permission errors when multiple databases shared a common schema with a routine referencing a table. The bug has existed since v22.2 when [user-defined functions (UDFs)]({% link v24.2/user-defined-functions.md %}) were introduced.
- [Hidden columns]({% link v24.2/create-table.md %}#not-visible-property) are now included in the `indkey` column of [`pg_catalog.pg_index`]({% link v24.2/pg-catalog.md %}).
- Fixed a bug when inputting `public` role as user name for [built-in compatibility functions]({% link v24.2/functions-and-operators.md %}#compatibility-functions), such as `has_database_privilege` and `has_schema_privilege`.
- Fixed a bug when [restoring]({% link v24.2/restore.md %}) a database with a [composite type]({% link v24.2/create-type.md %}#create-a-composite-data-type).
- Fixed a bug when [creating partial statistics]({% link v24.2/create-statistics.md %}) with the [`USING EXTREMES` option]({% link v24.2/sql-grammar.md %}#create_stats_option) (which is disabled by default) where it would occasionally use incorrect extreme values and collect no stats. This bug occurred when outer buckets were added to the previous histogram to account for extra distinct count.
- In the [DB Console event log]({% link v24.2/ui-overview-dashboard.md %}#events-panel), [`ALTER ROLE`]({% link v24.2/alter-role.md %}) events now display correctly even when no [role options]({% link v24.2/alter-role.md %}#role-options) are included in the `ALTER ROLE` statement.
- Fixed a bug where [`ALTER DATABASE ... DROP REGION`]({% link v24.2/alter-database.md %}#drop-region) could fail if any tables under the given database have [indexes on expressions]({% link v24.2/expression-indexes.md %}).

<h3 id="v24-2-0-alpha-2-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- Starting a `cockroach` process will no longer flush [buffered logs]({% link v24.2/configure-logs.md %}#log-buffering-for-network-sinks) to [configured logging sinks]({% link v24.2/configure-logs.md %}#configure-log-sinks) unless the process is running under `systemd`, where `cockroach` runs with the `NOTIFY_SOCKET` environment variable.

<h3 id="v24-2-0-alpha-2-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 130 merged PRs by 42 authors.

</div>
