## Database terms

Term | Definition
-----|-----------
**consistency** | The requirement that a transaction must change affected data only in allowed ways. CockroachDB uses "consistency" in both the sense of [ACID semantics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ACID) and the [CAP theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CAP_theorem), albeit less formally than either definition.
**isolation** | The  degree to which a transaction may be affected by other transactions running at the same time. CockroachDB provides the [`SERIALIZABLE`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serializability) isolation level, which is the highest possible and guarantees that every committed transaction has the same result as if each transaction were run one at a time.
**consensus** | <a name="architecture-overview-consensus"></a> The process of reaching agreement on whether a transaction is committed or aborted. CockroachDB uses the [Raft consensus protocol](#architecture-raft). In CockroachDB, when a range receives a write, a quorum of nodes containing replicas of the range acknowledge the write. This means your data is safely stored and a majority of nodes agree on the database's current state, even if some of the nodes are offline.<br/><br/>When a write does not achieve consensus, forward progress halts to maintain consistency within the cluster.
**replication** | The process of creating and distributing copies of data, as well as ensuring that those copies remain\ consistent. CockroachDB requires all writes to propagate to a [quorum](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quorum_%28distributed_computing%29) of copies of the data before being considered committed. This ensures the consistency of your data.
**transaction** | A set of operations performed on a database that satisfy the requirements of [ACID semantics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ACID). This is a crucial feature for a consistent system to ensure developers can trust the data in their database. For more information about how transactions work in CockroachDB, see [Transaction Layer](architecture/transaction-layer.html).
**multi-active availability** | A consensus-based notion of high availability that lets each node in the cluster handle reads and writes for a subset of the stored data (on a per-range basis). This is in contrast to _active-passive replication_, in which the active node receives 100% of request traffic, and _active-active_ replication, in which all nodes accept requests but typically cannot guarantee that reads are both up-to-date and fast.

## CockroachDB architecture terms

Term | Definition
-----|------------
**cluster** | A group of interconnected storage nodes that collaboratively organize transactions, fault tolerance, and data rebalancing.
**node** | An individual instance of CockroachDB. One or more nodes form a cluster.
**range** | <a name="architecture-range"></a> CockroachDB stores all user data (tables, indexes, etc.) and almost all system data in a sorted map of key-value pairs. This keyspace is divided into contiguous chunks called _ranges_, such that every key is found in one range.<br/><br/>From a SQL perspective, a table and its secondary indexes initially map to a single range, where each key-value pair in the range represents a single row in the table (also called the _primary index_ because the table is sorted by the primary key) or a single row in a secondary index. As soon as the size of a range reaches 512 MiB ([the default](configure-replication-zones.html#range-max-bytes)), it is split into two ranges. This process continues for these new ranges as the table and its indexes continue growing.
**replica** <a name="architecture-replica"></a> | A copy of a range stored on a node. By default, there are three [replicas](configure-replication-zones.html#num_replicas) of each range on different nodes.
**leaseholder** <a name="architecture-leaseholder"></a> | The replica that holds the "range lease." This replica receives and coordinates all read and write requests for the range.<br/><br/>For most types of tables and queries, the leaseholder is the only replica that can serve consistent reads (reads that return "the latest" data).
**Raft protocol** <a name="architecture-raft"></a> | The [consensus protocol](architecture/replication-layer.html#raft) employed in CockroachDB that ensures that your data is safely stored on multiple nodes and that those nodes agree on the current state even if some of them are temporarily disconnected.
**Raft leader** | For each range, the replica that is the "leader" for write requests. The leader uses the Raft protocol to ensure that a majority of replicas (the leader and enough followers) agree, based on their Raft logs, before committing the write. The Raft leader is almost always the same replica as the leaseholder.
**Raft log** | A time-ordered log of writes to a range that its replicas have agreed on. This log exists on-disk with each replica and is the range's source of truth for consistent replication.
