## v21.2.0-rc.1

Release Date: October 18, 2021

{% include releases/release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v21-2-0-rc-1-security-updates">Security updates</h3>

- It is no longer possible to use node TLS certificates to establish a SQL connection with any username other than `node`. This had existed as a way for an operator to use the [node certificate](../v21.2/authentication.html#using-digital-certificates-with-cockroachdb) to perform operations on behalf of another SQL user. However, this isn't necessary: an operator with access to a node cert can log in as `node` directly and create new credentials for another user.  By removing this facility, we tighten the guarantee that the principal in the TLS client cert always matches the SQL identity. [#71188][#71188]
- Multi-tenant SQL servers now reuse the tenant client certificate (`client-tenant.NN.crt`) for SQL-to-SQL communication. Existing deployments must regenerate the certificates with dual purpose (client and server authentication). [#71402][#71402]

<h3 id="v21-2-0-rc-1-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- SQL tenants will now spill to disk by default when processing large queries, instead of to memory. [#71218][#71218]

<h3 id="v21-2-0-rc-1-command-line-changes">Command-line changes</h3>

- `cockroach mt start-sql` will now support the following flags to configure ephemeral storage for SQL when processing large queries: `--store`, `--temp-dir`, and `--max-disk-temp-storage`. [#71218][#71218]
- `cockroach mt start-sql` will now support the `--max-sql-memory` flag to configure maximum SQL memory capacity to store temporary data. [#71276][#71276]

<h3 id="v21-2-0-rc-1-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- Non-Admin users of the [DB Console](../v21.2/ui-overview.html) have regained the ability to view the [Cluster Overview page](../v21.2/ui-cluster-overview-page.html). Users without the [Admin role](../v21.2/security-reference/authorization.html#admin-role) will still see most data about their nodes, but information such as command-line arguments, environment variables, and IP addresses and DNS names of nodes will be hidden. [#71383][#71383]

<h3 id="v21-2-0-rc-1-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug that caused the [optimizer](../v21.2/cost-based-optimizer.html) to erroneously discard [`WHERE` filters](../v21.2/selection-queries.html) when executing prepared statements, causing incorrect results to be returned. This bug was present since version [v21.1.9](v21.1.html#v21-1-9). [#71118][#71118]
- In {{ site.data.products.enterprise }} clusters that are [upgraded](../v21.2/upgrade-cockroach-version.html) to this version, fixed a bug that prevents [changefeeds](../v21.2/change-data-capture-overview.html) and [backups](../v21.2/take-full-and-incremental-backups.html) from being exercised as of a point in time prior to the upgrade. [#71319][#71319]
- Fixed a bug from an earlier v21.2 beta whereby a migration to create the `system.statement_statistics` table was not run. [#71477][#71477]

<h3 id="v21-2-0-rc-1-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 18 merged PRs by 13 authors.

[#71118]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/71118
[#71188]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/71188
[#71218]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/71218
[#71276]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/71276
[#71319]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/71319
[#71383]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/71383
[#71402]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/71402
[#71477]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/71477
