## v20.2.0-beta.4

Release Date: October 6, 2020

{{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}
{% include /v20.2/alerts/warning-a58932.md %}
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

{% include releases/release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v20-2-0-beta-4-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- The default search path for all sessions is now `$user, public` (as opposed to just `public`). This affects our name resolution semantics; now, if a table is present in both the `public` schema and the schema named the current user's username, an unqualified object name will be searched/placed in the user's schema. This doesn't impact the search semantics of tables in `pg_catalog`/`information_schema`/`temp_schema` -- these continue to be searched before checking the `$user` schema and the `public` schema. [#54586][#54586] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}

<h3 id="v20-2-0-beta-4-command-line-changes">Command-line changes</h3>

- The display of statement timings in the SQL shell ([`cockroach sql`](../v20.2/cockroach-sql.html) and [`cockroach demo`](../v20.2/cockroach-demo.html)) has been simplified. [#54765][#54765] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}

<h3 id="v20-2-0-beta-4-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Previously, CockroachDB would crash when `json_object_agg` and `jsonb_object_agg` aggregate functions were used as window functions. Those functions were added in a v20.2 testing release, so only testing v20.2 releases were affected. This is now fixed. [#54657][#54657]
- Fixed a bug that could cause storage-level corruption under rare circumstances while using the Pebble storage engine. [#54800][#54800]

<h3 id="v20-2-0-beta-4-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- Optimized compactions in Pebble to improve read/write performance in some write-heavy workloads. [#54800][#54800]

<h3 id="v20-2-0-beta-4-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 13 merged PRs by 9 authors.

[#54586]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54586
[#54657]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54657
[#54765]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54765
[#54800]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54800
