src/current/_includes/v25.2/known-limitations/row-level-ttl-limitations.md, before:

- Any queries you run against tables with Row-Level TTL enabled (or against tables that have [foreign keys]({% link {{page.version.version}}/foreign-key.md %}) that reference TTL-enabled tables) do not filter out expired rows from the result set (this includes [`UPDATE`s]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/update.md %}) and [`DELETE`s]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/delete.md %})). This feature may be added in a future release. For now, follow the instructions in [Filter out expired rows from a selection query]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/row-level-ttl.md %}#filter-out-expired-rows-from-a-selection-query).
- Enabling Row-Level TTL on a table with multiple [secondary indexes]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/indexes.md %}) can have negative performance impacts on a cluster, including increased [latency]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/common-issues-to-monitor.md %}#service-latency) and [contention]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/performance-best-practices-overview.md %}#transaction-contention). This is particularly true for large tables with terabytes of data and billions of rows that are split up into multiple ranges across separate nodes.
    - Increased latency may occur because secondary indexes aren't necessarily stored on the same underlying [ranges]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/architecture/overview.md %}#architecture-range) as a table's [primary indexes]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/indexes.md %}). Further, the secondary indexes' ranges may have [leaseholders]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/architecture/overview.md %}#architecture-leaseholder) located on different nodes than the primary index.
    - Increased contention may occur because [intents]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/architecture/transaction-layer.md %}#write-intents) must be written as part of performing the deletions.
    - Finally, secondary indexes can also have a negative impact on the overall performance of [TTL jobs]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/row-level-ttl.md %}#view-running-ttl-jobs). According to internal testing, the [TTL job processing rate]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/ui-ttl-dashboard.md %}#processing-rate) is worse on tables with secondary indexes. If you encounter this situation, decreasing the [`ttl_delete_batch_size` storage parameter]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/row-level-ttl.md %}#param-ttl-delete-batch-size) may help by decreasing the number of ranges that need to be accessed by the job.

Commit message:

Update Row-level TTL docs re: inbound foreign keys (#22633)
Fixes DOC-7473

src/current/_includes/v25.2/known-limitations/row-level-ttl-limitations.md, after:

- Any queries you run against tables with Row-Level TTL enabled (or against tables that have [foreign keys]({% link {{page.version.version}}/foreign-key.md %}) that reference TTL-enabled tables) do not filter out expired rows from the result set (this includes [`UPDATE`s]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/update.md %}) and [`DELETE`s]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/delete.md %})). This feature may be added in a future release. For now, follow the instructions in [Filter out expired rows from a selection query]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/row-level-ttl.md %}#filter-out-expired-rows-from-a-selection-query).
- Tables with Row-Level TTL can be referenced by [foreign keys]({% link {{page.version.version}}/foreign-key.md %}). TTL deletes are issued as regular [`DELETE`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/delete.md %}) statements, so inbound foreign keys apply. If an inbound foreign key uses `ON DELETE RESTRICT` and referencing rows exist, the TTL job fails with a foreign key violation. [#101372](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/issues/101372)
- Enabling Row-Level TTL on a table with multiple [secondary indexes]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/indexes.md %}) can have negative performance impacts on a cluster, including increased [latency]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/common-issues-to-monitor.md %}#service-latency) and [contention]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/performance-best-practices-overview.md %}#transaction-contention). This is particularly true for large tables with terabytes of data and billions of rows that are split up into multiple ranges across separate nodes.
    - Increased latency may occur because secondary indexes aren't necessarily stored on the same underlying [ranges]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/architecture/overview.md %}#architecture-range) as a table's [primary indexes]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/indexes.md %}). Further, the secondary indexes' ranges may have [leaseholders]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/architecture/overview.md %}#architecture-leaseholder) located on different nodes than the primary index.
    - Increased contention may occur because [intents]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/architecture/transaction-layer.md %}#write-intents) must be written as part of performing the deletions.
    - Finally, secondary indexes can also have a negative impact on the overall performance of [TTL jobs]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/row-level-ttl.md %}#view-running-ttl-jobs). According to internal testing, the [TTL job processing rate]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/ui-ttl-dashboard.md %}#processing-rate) is worse on tables with secondary indexes. If you encounter this situation, decreasing the [`ttl_delete_batch_size` storage parameter]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/row-level-ttl.md %}#param-ttl-delete-batch-size) may help by decreasing the number of ranges that need to be accessed by the job.
