v22.2/alter-index.md, before:

---
title: ALTER INDEX
summary: Use the ALTER INDEX statement to change an existing index.
toc: true
docs_area: reference.sql
---

The `ALTER INDEX` [statement](sql-statements.html) changes the definition of an index. For information on using `ALTER INDEX`, see the pages for its [subcommands](#subcommands).

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/misc/schema-change-stmt-note.md %}

## Subcommands

Subcommand | Description
-----------|------------
[`CONFIGURE ZONE`](configure-zone.html) | [Configure replication zones](configure-replication-zones.html) for an index.
[`PARTITION BY`](partition-by.html)  | Partition, re-partition, or un-partition an index. ([Enterprise-only](enterprise-licensing.html)).
[`RENAME TO`](rename-index.html) | Change the name of an index.
[`SPLIT AT`](split-at.html) | Force a [range split](architecture/distribution-layer.html#range-splits) at the specified row in the index.
[`UNSPLIT AT`](unsplit-at.html) | Remove a range split enforcement in the index.

## Index visibility

Use `VISIBLE` or `NOT VISIBLE` to set whether an index is visible to the [cost-based optimizer](cost-based-optimizer.html#control-whether-the-optimizer-uses-an-index). If `NOT VISIBLE`, the index will not be used in queries unless specifically selected with [index hint](indexes.html#selection). For an example, see [Set an index to be not visible](#set-an-index-to-be-not-visible).

## View schema changes

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/misc/schema-change-view-job.md %}

## Examples

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/sql/movr-statements-geo-partitioned-replicas.md %}

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/sql/rename-index.md %}

### Create a replication zone for a secondary index

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/zone-configs/create-a-replication-zone-for-a-secondary-index.md %}

### Split and unsplit an index

For examples, see [Split an index](split-at.html#split-an-index) and [Unsplit an index](unsplit-at.html#unsplit-an-index).

### Set an index to be not visible

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/demo_movr.md %}

1. Show the indexes on the `rides` table. In the last column, `visible`, you can see that all indexes have the value `t` (true).

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ sql
    > SHOW INDEXES FROM rides;
    ~~~

    ~~~
      table_name |                  index_name                   | non_unique | seq_in_index |  column_name  | direction | storing | implicit | visible
    -------------+-----------------------------------------------+------------+--------------+---------------+-----------+---------+----------+----------
      rides      | rides_auto_index_fk_city_ref_users            |     t      |            1 | city          | ASC       |    f    |    f     |    t
      rides      | rides_auto_index_fk_city_ref_users            |     t      |            2 | rider_id      | ASC       |    f    |    f     |    t
      rides      | rides_auto_index_fk_city_ref_users            |     t      |            3 | id            | ASC       |    f    |    t     |    t
      rides      | rides_auto_index_fk_vehicle_city_ref_vehicles |     t      |            1 | vehicle_city  | ASC       |    f    |    f     |    t
      ...
      rides      | rides_pkey                                    |     f      |           10 | revenue       | N/A       |    t    |    f     |    t
    (17 rows)
    ~~~

1. Explain a query that filters on revenue. Since there is no index on the `revenue` column, the query performs a full scan.

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ sql
    EXPLAIN SELECT * FROM rides WHERE revenue > 90 ORDER BY revenue ASC;
    ~~~

    ~~~
                                                                           info
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      distribution: full
      vectorized: true

      • sort
      │ estimated row count: 12,417
      │ order: +revenue
      │
      └── • filter
          │ estimated row count: 12,417
          │ filter: revenue > 90
          │
          └── • scan
                estimated row count: 125,000 (100% of the table; stats collected 4 minutes ago)
                table: rides@rides_pkey
                spans: FULL SCAN

      index recommendations: 1
      1. type: index creation
         SQL command: CREATE INDEX ON rides (revenue) STORING (vehicle_city, rider_id, vehicle_id, start_address, end_address, start_time, end_time);
    (19 rows)
    ~~~

1. Create the recommended index.

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ sql
    > CREATE INDEX ON rides (revenue) STORING (vehicle_city, rider_id, vehicle_id, start_address, end_address, start_time, end_time);
    ~~~

1. Display the indexes on the `rides` table to verify the newly created index `rides_revenue_idx`.

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ sql
    > SHOW INDEXES FROM rides;
    ~~~

    ~~~
      table_name |                  index_name                   | non_unique | seq_in_index |  column_name  | direction | storing | implicit | visible
    -------------+-----------------------------------------------+------------+--------------+---------------+-----------+---------+----------+----------
      rides      | rides_auto_index_fk_city_ref_users            |     t      |            1 | city          | ASC       |    f    |    f     |    t
      rides      | rides_auto_index_fk_city_ref_users            |     t      |            2 | rider_id      | ASC       |    f    |    f     |    t
      ...
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |            1 | revenue       | ASC       |    f    |    f     |    t
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |            2 | vehicle_city  | N/A       |    t    |    f     |    t
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |            3 | rider_id      | N/A       |    t    |    f     |    t
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |            4 | vehicle_id    | N/A       |    t    |    f     |    t
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |            5 | start_address | N/A       |    t    |    f     |    t
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |            6 | end_address   | N/A       |    t    |    f     |    t
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |            7 | start_time    | N/A       |    t    |    f     |    t
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |            8 | end_time      | N/A       |    t    |    f     |    t
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |            9 | city          | ASC       |    f    |    t     |    t
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |           10 | id            | ASC       |    f    |    t     |    t
    (27 rows)
    ~~~

1. Explain the query behavior after creating the index. The query now uses the `rides_revenue_idx` index and scans many fewer rows.

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ sql
    EXPLAIN SELECT * FROM rides WHERE revenue > 90 ORDER BY revenue ASC;
    ~~~

    ~~~
                                            info
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      distribution: local
      vectorized: true

      • scan
        estimated row count: 11,600 (9.3% of the table; stats collected 38 seconds ago)
        table: rides@rides_revenue_idx
        spans: (/90 - ]
    (7 rows)
    ~~~

1. Alter the index to be not visible to the optimizer, specifying the `NOT VISIBLE` clause.

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ sql
    > ALTER INDEX rides_revenue_idx NOT VISIBLE;
    ~~~

1. Display the table indexes and verify that the index visibility for `rides_revenue_idx` is `f` (false).

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ sql
    > SHOW INDEXES FROM rides;
    ~~~

    ~~~
      table_name |                  index_name                   | non_unique | seq_in_index |  column_name  | direction | storing | implicit | visible
    -------------+-----------------------------------------------+------------+--------------+---------------+-----------+---------+----------+----------
      rides      | rides_auto_index_fk_city_ref_users            |     t      |            1 | city          | ASC       |    f    |    f     |    t
      rides      | rides_auto_index_fk_city_ref_users            |     t      |            2 | rider_id      | ASC       |    f    |    f     |    t
      rides      | rides_auto_index_fk_city_ref_users            |     t      |            3 | id            | ASC       |    f    |    t     |    t
      ...
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |            1 | revenue       | ASC       |    f    |    f     |    f
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |            2 | vehicle_city  | N/A       |    t    |    f     |    f
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |            3 | rider_id      | N/A       |    t    |    f     |    f
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |            4 | vehicle_id    | N/A       |    t    |    f     |    f
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |            5 | start_address | N/A       |    t    |    f     |    f
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |            6 | end_address   | N/A       |    t    |    f     |    f
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |            7 | start_time    | N/A       |    t    |    f     |    f
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |            8 | end_time      | N/A       |    t    |    f     |    f
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |            9 | city          | ASC       |    f    |    t     |    f
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |           10 | id            | ASC       |    f    |    t     |    f
    (27 rows)
    ~~~

1. Explain the query behavior after making the index not visible to the optimizer. With the index not visible, the optimizer reverts to full scan and recommends that you make the index visible.

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ sql
    EXPLAIN SELECT * FROM rides WHERE revenue > 90 ORDER BY revenue ASC;
    ~~~

    ~~~
                                                                     info
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      distribution: full
      vectorized: true

      • sort
      │ estimated row count: 12,655
      │ order: +revenue
      │
      └── • filter
          │ estimated row count: 12,655
          │ filter: revenue > 90
          │
          └── • scan
                estimated row count: 125,000 (100% of the table; stats collected 4 minutes ago; using stats forecast for 10 seconds ago)
                table: rides@rides_pkey
                spans: FULL SCAN

      index recommendations: 1
      1. type: index alteration
         SQL command: ALTER INDEX rides@rides_revenue_idx VISIBLE;
    (19 rows)
    ~~~

## See also

- [`CREATE INDEX`](create-index.html)
- [`CREATE TABLE`](create-table.html)

Commit message:

follow-up work on not visible indexes (#15306)
* follow-up work on not visible indexes

v22.2/alter-index.md, after:

---
title: ALTER INDEX
summary: Use the ALTER INDEX statement to change an existing index.
toc: true
docs_area: reference.sql
---

The `ALTER INDEX` [statement](sql-statements.html) changes the definition of an index. For information on using `ALTER INDEX`, see the pages for its [subcommands](#subcommands).

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/misc/schema-change-stmt-note.md %}

## Subcommands

Subcommand | Description
-----------|------------
[`CONFIGURE ZONE`](configure-zone.html) | [Configure replication zones](configure-replication-zones.html) for an index.
[`PARTITION BY`](partition-by.html)  | Partition, re-partition, or un-partition an index. ([Enterprise-only](enterprise-licensing.html)).
[`RENAME TO`](rename-index.html) | Change the name of an index.
[`SPLIT AT`](split-at.html) | Force a [range split](architecture/distribution-layer.html#range-splits) at the specified row in the index.
[`UNSPLIT AT`](unsplit-at.html) | Remove a range split enforcement in the index.
[`VISIBLE`](#index-visibility) | Make an index visible to the [cost-based optimizer](cost-based-optimizer.html#control-whether-the-optimizer-uses-an-index).
[`NOT VISIBLE`](#index-visibility) | Make an index not visible to the [cost-based optimizer](cost-based-optimizer.html#control-whether-the-optimizer-uses-an-index).

## Index visibility

Use the `VISIBLE` and `NOT VISIBLE` subcommands to set the visibility of an index. This determines whether the index is visible to the [cost-based optimizer](cost-based-optimizer.html#control-whether-the-optimizer-uses-an-index). 

By default, indexes are visible. If `NOT VISIBLE`, the index will not be used in queries unless it is specifically selected with an [index hint](indexes.html#selection) or the property is overridden with the [`optimizer_use_not_visible_indexes` session variable](set-vars.html#optimizer-use-not-visible-indexes).

This allows you to create an index and check for query plan changes without affecting production queries. For an example, see [Set an index to be not visible](#set-an-index-to-be-not-visible).

### Index visibility considerations

- Primary indexes must be visible.
- Indexes that are not visible are still used to enforce `UNIQUE` and `FOREIGN KEY` [constraints](constraints.html).
- Indexes that are not visible are still used for foreign key cascades.
- When defining a [unique constraint](unique.html), the `NOT VISIBLE` syntax cannot be used to make the corresponding index not visible. Instead, use `ALTER INDEX` after creating the unique constraint.

## View schema changes

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/misc/schema-change-view-job.md %}

## Examples

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/sql/movr-statements-geo-partitioned-replicas.md %}

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/sql/rename-index.md %}

### Create a replication zone for a secondary index

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/zone-configs/create-a-replication-zone-for-a-secondary-index.md %}

### Split and unsplit an index

For examples, see [Split an index](split-at.html#split-an-index) and [Unsplit an index](unsplit-at.html#unsplit-an-index).

### Set an index to be not visible

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/demo_movr.md %}

1. Show the indexes on the `rides` table. In the last column, `visible`, you can see that all indexes have the value `t` (true).

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ sql
    > SHOW INDEXES FROM rides;
    ~~~

    ~~~
      table_name |                  index_name                   | non_unique | seq_in_index |  column_name  | direction | storing | implicit | visible
    -------------+-----------------------------------------------+------------+--------------+---------------+-----------+---------+----------+----------
      rides      | rides_auto_index_fk_city_ref_users            |     t      |            1 | city          | ASC       |    f    |    f     |    t
      rides      | rides_auto_index_fk_city_ref_users            |     t      |            2 | rider_id      | ASC       |    f    |    f     |    t
      rides      | rides_auto_index_fk_city_ref_users            |     t      |            3 | id            | ASC       |    f    |    t     |    t
      rides      | rides_auto_index_fk_vehicle_city_ref_vehicles |     t      |            1 | vehicle_city  | ASC       |    f    |    f     |    t
      ...
      rides      | rides_pkey                                    |     f      |           10 | revenue       | N/A       |    t    |    f     |    t
    (17 rows)
    ~~~

1. Explain a query that filters on revenue. Since there is no index on the `revenue` column, the query performs a full scan.

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ sql
    EXPLAIN SELECT * FROM rides WHERE revenue > 90 ORDER BY revenue ASC;
    ~~~

    ~~~
                                                                           info
    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      distribution: full
      vectorized: true

      • sort
      │ estimated row count: 12,417
      │ order: +revenue
      │
      └── • filter
          │ estimated row count: 12,417
          │ filter: revenue > 90
          │
          └── • scan
                estimated row count: 125,000 (100% of the table; stats collected 4 minutes ago)
                table: rides@rides_pkey
                spans: FULL SCAN

      index recommendations: 1
      1. type: index creation
         SQL command: CREATE INDEX ON rides (revenue) STORING (vehicle_city, rider_id, vehicle_id, start_address, end_address, start_time, end_time);
    (19 rows)
    ~~~

1. Create the recommended index.

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ sql
    > CREATE INDEX ON rides (revenue) STORING (vehicle_city, rider_id, vehicle_id, start_address, end_address, start_time, end_time);
    ~~~

1. Display the indexes on the `rides` table to verify the newly created index `rides_revenue_idx`.

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ sql
    > SHOW INDEXES FROM rides;
    ~~~

    ~~~
      table_name |                  index_name                   | non_unique | seq_in_index |  column_name  | direction | storing | implicit | visible
    -------------+-----------------------------------------------+------------+--------------+---------------+-----------+---------+----------+----------
      rides      | rides_auto_index_fk_city_ref_users            |     t      |            1 | city          | ASC       |    f    |    f     |    t
      rides      | rides_auto_index_fk_city_ref_users            |     t      |            2 | rider_id      | ASC       |    f    |    f     |    t
      ...
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |            1 | revenue       | ASC       |    f    |    f     |    t
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |            2 | vehicle_city  | N/A       |    t    |    f     |    t
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |            3 | rider_id      | N/A       |    t    |    f     |    t
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |            4 | vehicle_id    | N/A       |    t    |    f     |    t
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |            5 | start_address | N/A       |    t    |    f     |    t
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |            6 | end_address   | N/A       |    t    |    f     |    t
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |            7 | start_time    | N/A       |    t    |    f     |    t
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |            8 | end_time      | N/A       |    t    |    f     |    t
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |            9 | city          | ASC       |    f    |    t     |    t
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |           10 | id            | ASC       |    f    |    t     |    t
    (27 rows)
    ~~~

1. Explain the query behavior after creating the index. The query now uses the `rides_revenue_idx` index and scans many fewer rows.

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ sql
    EXPLAIN SELECT * FROM rides WHERE revenue > 90 ORDER BY revenue ASC;
    ~~~

    ~~~
                                            info
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      distribution: local
      vectorized: true

      • scan
        estimated row count: 11,600 (9.3% of the table; stats collected 38 seconds ago)
        table: rides@rides_revenue_idx
        spans: (/90 - ]
    (7 rows)
    ~~~

1. Alter the index to be not visible to the optimizer, specifying the `NOT VISIBLE` clause.

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ sql
    > ALTER INDEX rides_revenue_idx NOT VISIBLE;
    ~~~

1. Display the table indexes and verify that the index visibility for `rides_revenue_idx` is `f` (false).

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ sql
    > SHOW INDEXES FROM rides;
    ~~~

    ~~~
      table_name |                  index_name                   | non_unique | seq_in_index |  column_name  | direction | storing | implicit | visible
    -------------+-----------------------------------------------+------------+--------------+---------------+-----------+---------+----------+----------
      rides      | rides_auto_index_fk_city_ref_users            |     t      |            1 | city          | ASC       |    f    |    f     |    t
      rides      | rides_auto_index_fk_city_ref_users            |     t      |            2 | rider_id      | ASC       |    f    |    f     |    t
      rides      | rides_auto_index_fk_city_ref_users            |     t      |            3 | id            | ASC       |    f    |    t     |    t
      ...
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |            1 | revenue       | ASC       |    f    |    f     |    f
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |            2 | vehicle_city  | N/A       |    t    |    f     |    f
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |            3 | rider_id      | N/A       |    t    |    f     |    f
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |            4 | vehicle_id    | N/A       |    t    |    f     |    f
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |            5 | start_address | N/A       |    t    |    f     |    f
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |            6 | end_address   | N/A       |    t    |    f     |    f
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |            7 | start_time    | N/A       |    t    |    f     |    f
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |            8 | end_time      | N/A       |    t    |    f     |    f
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |            9 | city          | ASC       |    f    |    t     |    f
      rides      | rides_revenue_idx                             |     t      |           10 | id            | ASC       |    f    |    t     |    f
    (27 rows)
    ~~~

1. Explain the query behavior after making the index not visible to the optimizer. With the index not visible, the optimizer reverts to full scan and recommends that you make the index visible.

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ sql
    EXPLAIN SELECT * FROM rides WHERE revenue > 90 ORDER BY revenue ASC;
    ~~~

    ~~~
                                                                     info
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      distribution: full
      vectorized: true

      • sort
      │ estimated row count: 12,655
      │ order: +revenue
      │
      └── • filter
          │ estimated row count: 12,655
          │ filter: revenue > 90
          │
          └── • scan
                estimated row count: 125,000 (100% of the table; stats collected 4 minutes ago; using stats forecast for 10 seconds ago)
                table: rides@rides_pkey
                spans: FULL SCAN

      index recommendations: 1
      1. type: index alteration
         SQL command: ALTER INDEX rides@rides_revenue_idx VISIBLE;
    (19 rows)
    ~~~

## See also

- [`CREATE INDEX`](create-index.html)
- [`CREATE TABLE`](create-table.html)
