v22.2/deploy-cockroachdb-with-kubernetes-openshift.md, before:

---
title: Deploy CockroachDB on Red Hat OpenShift
summary: Deploy a 3-node CockroachDB cluster on the OpenShift platform.
toc: true
secure: true
docs_area: 
---

This page shows you how to start and stop a secure 3-node CockroachDB cluster on the Red Hat OpenShift platform, using the [CockroachDB Kubernetes Operator](https://marketplace.redhat.com/en-us/products/cockroachdb-operator).

## Prerequisites

- A running OpenShift cluster

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
This article assumes you have already installed the OpenShift Container Platform as your Kubernetes cluster. For details on this, see the [OpenShift documentation](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.7/installing/index.html).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Step 1. Create a CockroachDB namespace

1. Create a `cockroachdb` namespace. You will create the CockroachDB cluster in this namespace:

	{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
	`oc` runs `kubectl` commands on OpenShift clusters, using the same syntax.
	{{site.data.alerts.end}}

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~ shell
	oc create namespace cockroachdb
	~~~

	~~~
	namespace/cockroachdb created
	~~~

1.	Set `cockroachdb` as the default namespace:

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~ shell
	oc config set-context --current --namespace=cockroachdb
	~~~

	~~~
	Context "admin" modified.
	~~~

	Validate that this was successful:

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~ shell
	oc config view --minify | grep namespace:
	~~~

	~~~
	namespace: cockroachdb
	~~~

	This lets you issue `oc` commands without having to specify the namespace each time.

## Step 2. Install the Operator

1. Navigate to your OpenShift web console and click **OperatorHub**.

1. Enter "cockroach" in the search box. There are two tiles called **CockroachDB Operator**. Find the tile _without_ the `Marketplace` label (which requires a subscription).

	<img src="{{ 'images/v22.2/cockroachdb-operator-openshift.png' | relative_url }}" alt="OpenShift OperatorHub" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

	Click the **CockroachDB Operator** tile and then **Install**.

1. On the **Install Operator** page, select `cockroachdb` in the **Installed Namespace** dropdown and click **Install**.

1. Confirm that the Operator is running:

	  {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	  ~~~ shell
	  $ oc get pods
	  ~~~

	~~~
	NAME                                  READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
	cockroach-operator-65c4f6df45-h5r5n   1/1     Running   0          51s
	~~~

## Step 3. Start CockroachDB

{% capture latest_operator_version %}{% include_cached latest_operator_version.md %}{% endcapture %}

1. When the Operator is ready, click **View Operator** to navigate to the **Installed Operators** page.

1. In the **CockroachDB Operator** tile, click **Create instance**.

	<img src="{{ 'images/v22.2/cockroachdb-operator-instance-openshift.png' | relative_url }}" alt="OpenShift OperatorHub" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

1. Make sure **CockroachDB Version** is set to a valid CockroachDB version. For a list of compatible image names, see `spec.containers.env` in the [Operator manifest](https://raw.github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach-operator/v{{ latest_operator_version }}/install/operator.yaml) on GitHub.

1. This will open the **Create CrdbCluster** page. By default, this deploys a 3-node secure cluster. Leave the other fields unchanged and click **Create**.

1. Navigate to **Workloads** > **Pods** and observe the pods being created:

	<img src="{{ 'images/v22.2/cockroachdb-operator-pods-openshift.png' | relative_url }}" alt="OpenShift OperatorHub" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

1. You can also use the command line to view the pods:

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~ shell
	oc get pods
	~~~

	~~~
	NAME                                  READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
	cockroach-operator-65c4f6df45-h5r5n   1/1     Running   0          6m11s
	crdb-tls-example-0                    1/1     Running   0          3m15s
	crdb-tls-example-1                    1/1     Running   0          103s
	crdb-tls-example-2                    1/1     Running   0          89s
	~~~

## Step 4. Create a secure client pod

To use the CockroachDB SQL client, first launch a secure pod running the `cockroach` binary.

This can be defined with the following YAML, which mounts the Operator's generated certificates:

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
`spec.containers.image` should match the **Image** value that is displayed under the **Containers** section on the **Pods** page when you select a CockroachDB pod. Be sure to select a CockroachDB pod and not the Operator pod.

Note that OpenShift may display the image SHA instead of the tag. In this case, you should use the SHA for `spec.containers.image`.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: crdb-client-secure
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/component: database
    app.kubernetes.io/instance: crdb-tls-example
    app.kubernetes.io/name: cockroachdb
spec:
  serviceAccountName: cockroach-operator-sa
  containers:
  - name: crdb-client-secure
    image: registry.connect.redhat.com/cockroachdb/cockroach:v20.2.8
    imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
    volumeMounts:
    - name: client-certs
      mountPath: /cockroach/cockroach-certs/
    command:
    - sleep
    - "2147483648" # 2^31
  terminationGracePeriodSeconds: 0
  volumes:
  - name: client-certs
    projected:
        sources:
          - secret:
              name: crdb-tls-example-node
              items:
                - key: ca.crt
                  path: ca.crt
          - secret:
              name: crdb-tls-example-root
              items:
                - key: tls.crt
                  path: client.root.crt
                - key: tls.key
                  path: client.root.key
        defaultMode: 256
~~~

1. On the **Pods** page, click **Create Pod** and replace the existing YAML with the above manifest.

1. Click **Create**. Return to the **Pods** page and check that the client pod `crdb-client-secure` is running. This is also visible on the command-line:

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~ shell
	oc get pods
	~~~

	~~~
	NAME                                  READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
	cockroach-operator-65c4f6df45-h5r5n   1/1     Running   0          6m11s
	crdb-client-secure                    1/1     Running   0          14m
	crdb-tls-example-0                    1/1     Running   0          3m15s
	crdb-tls-example-1                    1/1     Running   0          103s
	crdb-tls-example-2                    1/1     Running   0          89s
	~~~

## Step 5. Use the CockroachDB SQL client

1. Start the CockroachDB [built-in SQL client](cockroach-sql.html) from the client pod:

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~ shell
	oc exec -it crdb-client-secure -- ./cockroach sql --certs-dir=/cockroach/cockroach-certs/ --host=crdb-tls-example-public
	~~~

	~~~
	#
	# Welcome to the CockroachDB SQL shell.
	# All statements must be terminated by a semicolon.
	# To exit, type: \q.
	#
	# Server version: CockroachDB CCL v20.2.8 	(x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu, built 2021/04/23 13:54:57, go1.13.14) (same version as client)
	# Cluster ID: 0813c343-c86b-4be8-9ad0-477cdb5db749
	#
	# Enter \? for a brief introduction.
	#
	root@crdb-tls-example-public:26257/defaultdb>
	~~~

	Now you can run SQL commands against the cluster.

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/orchestration/kubernetes-basic-sql.md %}

**Note:** If you cannot access the SQL client, this may be related to your `--certs-dir` or `--host` flags. 

1. Shell into the client pod and check for the necessary certs in the `--certs-dir` directory:

	{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
	You can also access the client pod by selecting it on the **Pods** page and clicking **Terminal**.
	{{site.data.alerts.end}}

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~ shell
	oc exec -it crdb-client-secure sh
	~~~

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~ shell
	# cd /cockroach/cockroach-certs
	# ls
	~~~

	~~~
	ca.crt           client.root.key
	client.root.crt
	~~~

1. Check the name of the `public` service to use with the `--host` flag:

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~ shell
	oc get services
	~~~

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~ shell
	NAME                      TYPE        CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)              AGE
	crdb-tls-example          ClusterIP   None             <none>        26257/TCP,8080/TCP   14m
	crdb-tls-example-public   ClusterIP   172.25.180.197   <none>        26257/TCP,8080/TCP   14m
	~~~

## Step 6. Access the DB Console

To access the CockroachDB cluster's [DB Console](ui-overview.html):

1. On secure clusters, [certain pages of the DB Console](ui-overview.html#db-console-access) can only be accessed by `admin` users.

	Start the CockroachDB [built-in SQL client](cockroach-sql.html) from the client pod:

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~ shell
	oc exec -it crdb-client-secure -- ./cockroach sql --certs-dir=/cockroach/cockroach-certs/ --host=crdb-tls-example-public
	~~~

1.  Assign `roach` to the `admin` role (you only need to do this once):

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ sql
    > GRANT admin TO roach;
    ~~~

1. Exit the SQL shell and pod:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ sql
    > \q
    ~~~

1. In a new terminal window, port-forward from your local machine to the `crdb-tls-example-public` service:

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~ shell
	oc port-forward service/crdb-tls-example-public 8080
	~~~

	~~~
	Forwarding from [::1]:8080 -> 8080
	~~~

1. Go to <a href="https://localhost:8080/" data-proofer-ignore>https://localhost:8080</a> and log in with the username and password you created earlier.

    {% include {{ page.version.version }}/misc/chrome-localhost.md %}

## Step 7. Run a sample workload

To run a sample [CockroachDB workload](cockroach-workload.html):

1. Use the secure client pod to load the `movr` schema on one of the CockroachDB pods:

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~ shell
	oc exec -it crdb-client-secure -- ./cockroach workload init movr 'postgresql://root@crdb-tls-example-0.crdb-tls-example.cockroachdb:26257?sslcert=%2Fcockroach%2Fcockroach-certs%2Fclient.root.crt&sslkey=%2Fcockroach%2Fcockroach-certs%2Fclient.root.key&sslmode=verify-full&sslrootcert=%2Fcockroach%2Fcockroach-certs%2Fca.crt'
	~~~

1. Initialize and run the workload for 3 minutes:

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~ shell
	oc exec -it crdb-client-secure -- ./cockroach workload run movr --duration=3m --tolerate-errors --max-rate=20 --concurrency=1 --display-every=10s 'postgresql://root@crdb-tls-example-0.crdb-tls-example.cockroachdb:26257?sslcert=%2Fcockroach%2Fcockroach-certs%2Fclient.root.crt&sslkey=%2Fcockroach%2Fcockroach-certs%2Fclient.root.key&sslmode=verify-full&sslrootcert=%2Fcockroach%2Fcockroach-certs%2Fca.crt'
	~~~

1. Select one of the CockroachDB pods on the **Pods** page and click **Logs**. This will reveal the JDBC URL that your application can use to connect to CockroachDB:

	<img src="{{ 'images/v22.2/cockroachdb-operator-logs-openshift.png' | relative_url }}" alt="OpenShift OperatorHub" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

## Step 8. Delete the cluster

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
If you want to continue using this cluster, see the documentation on [configuring](configure-cockroachdb-kubernetes.html), [scaling](scale-cockroachdb-kubernetes.html), [monitoring](monitor-cockroachdb-kubernetes.html), and [upgrading](upgrade-cockroachdb-kubernetes.html) the cluster.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

1. Go to the **Installed Operators** page and find the cluster name of the CockroachDB cluster. Select **Delete CrdbCluster** from the menu.

	<img src="{{ 'images/v22.2/cockroachdb-operator-delete-openshift.png' | relative_url }}" alt="OpenShift OperatorHub" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

This will delete the CockroachDB cluster being run by the Operator. It will *not* delete:

- The persistent volumes that were attached to the pods. This can be done by deleting the PVCs via **Storage** > **Persistent Volume Claims**.
- The opaque secrets used to authenticate the cluster. This can be done via **Workloads** > **Secrets**.
 
{{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}
If you want to delete the persistent volumes and free up the storage used by CockroachDB, be sure you have a backup copy of your data. Data **cannot** be recovered once the persistent volumes are deleted. For more information, see the [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/delete-stateful-set/#persistent-volumes).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
For more information on managing secrets, see the [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configmap-secret/managing-secret-using-kubectl).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

Commit message:

Change prerequisites to before you begin (#16118)

v22.2/deploy-cockroachdb-with-kubernetes-openshift.md, after:

---
title: Deploy CockroachDB on Red Hat OpenShift
summary: Deploy a 3-node CockroachDB cluster on the OpenShift platform.
toc: true
secure: true
docs_area: 
---

This page shows you how to start and stop a secure 3-node CockroachDB cluster on the Red Hat OpenShift platform, using the [CockroachDB Kubernetes Operator](https://marketplace.redhat.com/en-us/products/cockroachdb-operator).

## Before you begin

You must have the following set up before proceeding with this tutorial:

- A running OpenShift cluster

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
This article assumes you have already installed the OpenShift Container Platform as your Kubernetes cluster. For details on this, see the [OpenShift documentation](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.7/installing/index.html).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Step 1. Create a CockroachDB namespace

1. Create a `cockroachdb` namespace. You will create the CockroachDB cluster in this namespace:

	{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
	`oc` runs `kubectl` commands on OpenShift clusters, using the same syntax.
	{{site.data.alerts.end}}

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~ shell
	oc create namespace cockroachdb
	~~~

	~~~
	namespace/cockroachdb created
	~~~

1.	Set `cockroachdb` as the default namespace:

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~ shell
	oc config set-context --current --namespace=cockroachdb
	~~~

	~~~
	Context "admin" modified.
	~~~

	Validate that this was successful:

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~ shell
	oc config view --minify | grep namespace:
	~~~

	~~~
	namespace: cockroachdb
	~~~

	This lets you issue `oc` commands without having to specify the namespace each time.

## Step 2. Install the Operator

1. Navigate to your OpenShift web console and click **OperatorHub**.

1. Enter "cockroach" in the search box. There are two tiles called **CockroachDB Operator**. Find the tile _without_ the `Marketplace` label (which requires a subscription).

	<img src="{{ 'images/v22.2/cockroachdb-operator-openshift.png' | relative_url }}" alt="OpenShift OperatorHub" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

	Click the **CockroachDB Operator** tile and then **Install**.

1. On the **Install Operator** page, select `cockroachdb` in the **Installed Namespace** dropdown and click **Install**.

1. Confirm that the Operator is running:

	  {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	  ~~~ shell
	  $ oc get pods
	  ~~~

	~~~
	NAME                                  READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
	cockroach-operator-65c4f6df45-h5r5n   1/1     Running   0          51s
	~~~

## Step 3. Start CockroachDB

{% capture latest_operator_version %}{% include_cached latest_operator_version.md %}{% endcapture %}

1. When the Operator is ready, click **View Operator** to navigate to the **Installed Operators** page.

1. In the **CockroachDB Operator** tile, click **Create instance**.

	<img src="{{ 'images/v22.2/cockroachdb-operator-instance-openshift.png' | relative_url }}" alt="OpenShift OperatorHub" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

1. Make sure **CockroachDB Version** is set to a valid CockroachDB version. For a list of compatible image names, see `spec.containers.env` in the [Operator manifest](https://raw.github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach-operator/v{{ latest_operator_version }}/install/operator.yaml) on GitHub.

1. This will open the **Create CrdbCluster** page. By default, this deploys a 3-node secure cluster. Leave the other fields unchanged and click **Create**.

1. Navigate to **Workloads** > **Pods** and observe the pods being created:

	<img src="{{ 'images/v22.2/cockroachdb-operator-pods-openshift.png' | relative_url }}" alt="OpenShift OperatorHub" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

1. You can also use the command line to view the pods:

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~ shell
	oc get pods
	~~~

	~~~
	NAME                                  READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
	cockroach-operator-65c4f6df45-h5r5n   1/1     Running   0          6m11s
	crdb-tls-example-0                    1/1     Running   0          3m15s
	crdb-tls-example-1                    1/1     Running   0          103s
	crdb-tls-example-2                    1/1     Running   0          89s
	~~~

## Step 4. Create a secure client pod

To use the CockroachDB SQL client, first launch a secure pod running the `cockroach` binary.

This can be defined with the following YAML, which mounts the Operator's generated certificates:

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
`spec.containers.image` should match the **Image** value that is displayed under the **Containers** section on the **Pods** page when you select a CockroachDB pod. Be sure to select a CockroachDB pod and not the Operator pod.

Note that OpenShift may display the image SHA instead of the tag. In this case, you should use the SHA for `spec.containers.image`.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: crdb-client-secure
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/component: database
    app.kubernetes.io/instance: crdb-tls-example
    app.kubernetes.io/name: cockroachdb
spec:
  serviceAccountName: cockroach-operator-sa
  containers:
  - name: crdb-client-secure
    image: registry.connect.redhat.com/cockroachdb/cockroach:v20.2.8
    imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
    volumeMounts:
    - name: client-certs
      mountPath: /cockroach/cockroach-certs/
    command:
    - sleep
    - "2147483648" # 2^31
  terminationGracePeriodSeconds: 0
  volumes:
  - name: client-certs
    projected:
        sources:
          - secret:
              name: crdb-tls-example-node
              items:
                - key: ca.crt
                  path: ca.crt
          - secret:
              name: crdb-tls-example-root
              items:
                - key: tls.crt
                  path: client.root.crt
                - key: tls.key
                  path: client.root.key
        defaultMode: 256
~~~

1. On the **Pods** page, click **Create Pod** and replace the existing YAML with the above manifest.

1. Click **Create**. Return to the **Pods** page and check that the client pod `crdb-client-secure` is running. This is also visible on the command-line:

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~ shell
	oc get pods
	~~~

	~~~
	NAME                                  READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
	cockroach-operator-65c4f6df45-h5r5n   1/1     Running   0          6m11s
	crdb-client-secure                    1/1     Running   0          14m
	crdb-tls-example-0                    1/1     Running   0          3m15s
	crdb-tls-example-1                    1/1     Running   0          103s
	crdb-tls-example-2                    1/1     Running   0          89s
	~~~

## Step 5. Use the CockroachDB SQL client

1. Start the CockroachDB [built-in SQL client](cockroach-sql.html) from the client pod:

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~ shell
	oc exec -it crdb-client-secure -- ./cockroach sql --certs-dir=/cockroach/cockroach-certs/ --host=crdb-tls-example-public
	~~~

	~~~
	#
	# Welcome to the CockroachDB SQL shell.
	# All statements must be terminated by a semicolon.
	# To exit, type: \q.
	#
	# Server version: CockroachDB CCL v20.2.8 	(x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu, built 2021/04/23 13:54:57, go1.13.14) (same version as client)
	# Cluster ID: 0813c343-c86b-4be8-9ad0-477cdb5db749
	#
	# Enter \? for a brief introduction.
	#
	root@crdb-tls-example-public:26257/defaultdb>
	~~~

	Now you can run SQL commands against the cluster.

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/orchestration/kubernetes-basic-sql.md %}

**Note:** If you cannot access the SQL client, this may be related to your `--certs-dir` or `--host` flags. 

1. Shell into the client pod and check for the necessary certs in the `--certs-dir` directory:

	{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
	You can also access the client pod by selecting it on the **Pods** page and clicking **Terminal**.
	{{site.data.alerts.end}}

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~ shell
	oc exec -it crdb-client-secure sh
	~~~

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~ shell
	# cd /cockroach/cockroach-certs
	# ls
	~~~

	~~~
	ca.crt           client.root.key
	client.root.crt
	~~~

1. Check the name of the `public` service to use with the `--host` flag:

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~ shell
	oc get services
	~~~

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~ shell
	NAME                      TYPE        CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)              AGE
	crdb-tls-example          ClusterIP   None             <none>        26257/TCP,8080/TCP   14m
	crdb-tls-example-public   ClusterIP   172.25.180.197   <none>        26257/TCP,8080/TCP   14m
	~~~

## Step 6. Access the DB Console

To access the CockroachDB cluster's [DB Console](ui-overview.html):

1. On secure clusters, [certain pages of the DB Console](ui-overview.html#db-console-access) can only be accessed by `admin` users.

	Start the CockroachDB [built-in SQL client](cockroach-sql.html) from the client pod:

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~ shell
	oc exec -it crdb-client-secure -- ./cockroach sql --certs-dir=/cockroach/cockroach-certs/ --host=crdb-tls-example-public
	~~~

1.  Assign `roach` to the `admin` role (you only need to do this once):

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ sql
    > GRANT admin TO roach;
    ~~~

1. Exit the SQL shell and pod:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ sql
    > \q
    ~~~

1. In a new terminal window, port-forward from your local machine to the `crdb-tls-example-public` service:

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~ shell
	oc port-forward service/crdb-tls-example-public 8080
	~~~

	~~~
	Forwarding from [::1]:8080 -> 8080
	~~~

1. Go to <a href="https://localhost:8080/" data-proofer-ignore>https://localhost:8080</a> and log in with the username and password you created earlier.

    {% include {{ page.version.version }}/misc/chrome-localhost.md %}

## Step 7. Run a sample workload

To run a sample [CockroachDB workload](cockroach-workload.html):

1. Use the secure client pod to load the `movr` schema on one of the CockroachDB pods:

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~ shell
	oc exec -it crdb-client-secure -- ./cockroach workload init movr 'postgresql://root@crdb-tls-example-0.crdb-tls-example.cockroachdb:26257?sslcert=%2Fcockroach%2Fcockroach-certs%2Fclient.root.crt&sslkey=%2Fcockroach%2Fcockroach-certs%2Fclient.root.key&sslmode=verify-full&sslrootcert=%2Fcockroach%2Fcockroach-certs%2Fca.crt'
	~~~

1. Initialize and run the workload for 3 minutes:

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~ shell
	oc exec -it crdb-client-secure -- ./cockroach workload run movr --duration=3m --tolerate-errors --max-rate=20 --concurrency=1 --display-every=10s 'postgresql://root@crdb-tls-example-0.crdb-tls-example.cockroachdb:26257?sslcert=%2Fcockroach%2Fcockroach-certs%2Fclient.root.crt&sslkey=%2Fcockroach%2Fcockroach-certs%2Fclient.root.key&sslmode=verify-full&sslrootcert=%2Fcockroach%2Fcockroach-certs%2Fca.crt'
	~~~

1. Select one of the CockroachDB pods on the **Pods** page and click **Logs**. This will reveal the JDBC URL that your application can use to connect to CockroachDB:

	<img src="{{ 'images/v22.2/cockroachdb-operator-logs-openshift.png' | relative_url }}" alt="OpenShift OperatorHub" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

## Step 8. Delete the cluster

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
If you want to continue using this cluster, see the documentation on [configuring](configure-cockroachdb-kubernetes.html), [scaling](scale-cockroachdb-kubernetes.html), [monitoring](monitor-cockroachdb-kubernetes.html), and [upgrading](upgrade-cockroachdb-kubernetes.html) the cluster.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

1. Go to the **Installed Operators** page and find the cluster name of the CockroachDB cluster. Select **Delete CrdbCluster** from the menu.

	<img src="{{ 'images/v22.2/cockroachdb-operator-delete-openshift.png' | relative_url }}" alt="OpenShift OperatorHub" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

This will delete the CockroachDB cluster being run by the Operator. It will *not* delete:

- The persistent volumes that were attached to the pods. This can be done by deleting the PVCs via **Storage** > **Persistent Volume Claims**.
- The opaque secrets used to authenticate the cluster. This can be done via **Workloads** > **Secrets**.
 
{{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}
If you want to delete the persistent volumes and free up the storage used by CockroachDB, be sure you have a backup copy of your data. Data **cannot** be recovered once the persistent volumes are deleted. For more information, see the [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/delete-stateful-set/#persistent-volumes).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
For more information on managing secrets, see the [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configmap-secret/managing-secret-using-kubectl).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}
