v22.2/ui-insights-page.md, before:

---
title: Insights Page
summary: The Insights page provides insights into and actions you can take to improve the performance of your application.
toc: true
docs_area: reference.db_console
---

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/ui/admin-access.md %}

The **Insights** page provides insights into and actions you can take to improve the performance of your application.

{% include_cached new-in.html version="v22.2" %} The **Insights** page  of the DB Console helps you:

- Identify high latency [SQL transactions](transactions.html) and [SQL statements](sql-statements.html).
- Identify SQL statements with [high retry counts](transactions.html#automatic-retries), [slow execution](query-behavior-troubleshooting.html#identify-slow-queries), or [suboptimal plans](cost-based-optimizer.html).
- Identify [Indexes](indexes.html) that should be created, altered, replaced, or dropped to achieve read and write performance objectives.


## Workload Insights tab

The Workload Insights tab displays insights related to transaction and statement executions.

### Transaction Executions view

To display this view, click **Insights** in the left-hand navigation of the DB Console. The **Workload Insights > Transaction Executions** view is selected.

The **Transaction Executions** view provides an overview of all transaction executions that have been flagged with insights.

The rows in this page are populated from the [`crdb_internal.transaction_contention_events`](crdb-internal.html#transaction_contention_events) table.
The results displayed in the Transaction Executions view will be available as long as the corresponding row in the `crdb_internal.transaction_contention_events` table exists
and as long as the rows in each node use less space than `sql.contention.event_store.capacity`.

Transaction executions with the insight High Contention are transactions that experienced contention.

- **Transaction Execution ID**: The execution ID of the latest execution with the transaction fingerprint.
- **Transaction Fingerprint ID**: The transaction fingerprint ID of the latest transaction execution.
- **Transaction Execution**: The transaction fingerprint of the latest transaction execution.
- **Insights**: the insight for the transaction execution.
  - **High Contention**: The transaction execution experienced high contention time according to the threshold set in `sql.insights.latency_threshold`.
- **Start Time (UTC)**: The time the transaction execution started.
- **Contention Time**: The amount of time the transaction execution spent waiting in contention.
- **Application Name**: The name specified by the [`application_name`](show-vars.html#supported-variables) session setting.

The following screenshot shows the execution of a transaction in the [ycsb](cockroach-workload.html#run-the-ycsb-workload) workload flagged with High Contention:

<img src="{{ 'images/v22.2/transaction_execution.png' | relative_url }}" alt="Transaction execution" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

To view details of the execution, click an execution ID in the **Transaction Execution ID** column.

#### Transaction Executions Details

The **Transaction Executions Details** view provides more details on a transaction execution insight.

The following screenshot shows the execution details of the transaction execution in the preceding section:

<img src="{{ 'images/v22.2/transaction_execution_details.png' | relative_url }}" alt="Transaction execution details" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

Additional details include:

- **Start Time (UTC)**: The time the transaction execution started.
- **Transaction Fingerprint ID**: The transaction fingerprint ID of the transaction execution.

##### Contention Time Insights

- **Time Spent Waiting**: The amount of time the transaction execution spent waiting.
- **Blocked Schema**: The name of the schema on which the transaction execution was running when it waited.
- **Blocked Database**: The name of the database on which the transaction execution was running when it waited.
- **Blocked Table**: The name of the table on which the transaction execution was running when it waited.

##### Transactions waiting with ID

The list of the transaction executions that waited on the blocking transaction execution contains the following information about each transaction:

- **Transaction Execution ID**: The execution ID of the execution with the transaction fingerprint.
- **Transaction Fingerprint ID**: The transaction fingerprint ID of the transaction execution.
- **Transaction Execution**: The transaction fingerprint of the transaction execution.
- **Start Time (UTC)**: The time the transaction execution started.
- **Elapsed Time**: The time that elapsed to complete the transaction execution.

### Statement Executions view

The **Statement Executions** view provides an overview of all statement executions that have been flagged with insights.

To display this view, click **Insights** in the left-hand navigation of the DB Console and select **Workload Insights > Statement Executions**.

The rows in this page are populated from the [`crdb_internal.cluster_execution_insights`](crdb-internal.html) table.
The results displayed on the Statement Executions view will be available as long as the number of rows in each node is less than `sql.insights.execution_insights_capacity`.

- **Statement Execution ID**: The execution ID of the latest execution with the statement fingerprint.
- **Statement Fingerprint ID**: The statement fingerprint ID of the latest statement execution.
- **Statement Execution**: The [statement fingerprint](ui-statements-page.html#sql-statement-fingerprints) of the latest statement execution.
- **Insights**: The insight for the statement execution.
  - **High Contention**: The statement execution experienced high contention time according to the threshold set in `sql.insights.latency_threshold`.
  - **High Retry Count**: The statement execution experienced a high number of retries according to the threshold set in `sql.insights.high_retry_count.threshold`.
  - **Suboptimal Plan**: The statement execution experienced a suboptimal plan.
  - **Failed**: The statement execution failed.
  - **Slow Execution**: The statement execution experienced slow execution according to the threshold set in
- **Start Time (UTC)**: The time the statement execution started.
- **Elapsed Time**: The time that elapsed to complete the statement execution.
- **User Name**: The name of the user that invoked the statement execution.
- **Application Name**: The name specified by the [`application_name`](show-vars.html#supported-variables) session setting.
- **Rows Processed**: The total number of rows read and written.
- **Retries**: The number of times the statement execution was retried.
- **Contention Time**: The amount of time the statement execution spent waiting in contention.
- **Full Scan**: Whether the execution performed a full scan of the table.
- **Transaction Execution ID**: The ID of the transaction execution for the statement execution.
- **Transaction Fingerprint ID**: The ID of the transaction fingerprint for the statement execution.

The following screenshot shows the statement execution of the query described in [Use the right index]({{ link_prefix }}apply-statement-performance-rules.html#rule-2-use-the-right-index):

<img src="{{ 'images/v22.2/statement_executions.png' | relative_url }}" alt="Statement execution" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

To view details of the execution, click an execution ID in the **Statement Execution ID** column.

#### Statement Execution Details

The **Statement Execution Details** view provides more details on a statement execution insight. Additional information includes:

- **Start Time**: The time the statement execution started.
- **End Time**: The time the statement execution ended.
- **Elapsed Time**: The time that elapsed during statement execution.
- **Rows Read**: The total number of rows read.
- **Rows Written**: The total number of rows written.
- **Transaction Priority**: The [priority](transactions.html#set-transaction-priority) of the transaction for the statement execution.
- **Full Scan**: Whether the execution performed a full scan of the table.
- **Session ID**: The ID of the [session](ui-sessions-page.html) the statement was executed from.
- **Transaction Fingerprint ID**: The ID of the transaction fingerprint for the statement execution.
- **Transaction Execution ID**: The ID of the transaction execution for the statement execution.
- **Statement Fingerprint ID**: The fingerprint ID of the statement fingerprint for the statement execution..

The following screenshot shows the execution details of the statement execution in the preceding section:

<img src="{{ 'images/v22.2/statement_execution_details.png' | relative_url }}" alt="Statement execution details" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

The Insights column shows the name of the insight, in this case **Suboptimal Plan**, the Details column provides details on the insight, and the final column contains a button to perform a query to mitigate the cause of the insight,
in this case to create an index on the ride start time that stores the rider ID.

## Schema Insights view

To display this view, click **Insights** in the left-hand navigation of the DB Console and select **Schema Insights**.

This view lists the indexes that have not been used and should be dropped and or the ones that should be created, altered, or replaced (based on statement execution).

- The drop recommendations are the same as those on the [Databases](ui-databases-page.html) page.
- The create, alter, and replace recommendations are the same as those on the [Explain Plans tab](ui-statements-page.html#insights) on the Statements page. The Explain Plans tab shows all recommendations, however this page shows only the latest recommendations for that statement fingerprint. If you execute a statement again after creating or updating an index, the recommendation disappears.

The following screenshot shows the insight that displays after you run the query described in [Use the right index]({{ link_prefix }}apply-statement-performance-rules.html#rule-2-use-the-right-index) 6 or more times:

<img src="{{ 'images/v22.2/schema_insight.png' | relative_url }}" alt="Schema insight" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

- **Insights:** Contains one of the following insight types: **Create Index**, **Alter Index**, **Replace Index**, **Drop Unused Index**.
- **Details:** Details for each insight. Different insight types display different details fields:
    - Create, Alter, or Replace Index: a Statement Fingerprint field, which displays the statement fingerprint that would be optimized with the creation, alteration, or replacement of the index, and a Recommendation field, which displays the SQL query to create, alter, or replace the index.
    - Drop Unused Index: an Index field, which displays the name of the index to drop, and a Description field, which displays the reason for dropping the index.

To realize the schema insight, click the action button in the final column to execute the SQL query.

## Configuration

You can configure the behavior of insights using the following [cluster settings](cluster-settings.html).

### Workload insights settings

You can configure whether and what insights display in [Workload Insights](#workload-insights-tab) with the following cluster settings.

| Setting                                                                | Default value | Description                                                                                                                                                    | Where used                           |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
|`sql.insights.anomaly_detection.enabled`                                | `true`        | Whether or not insight detection is enabled.                                                                                                                   | Statement executions                 |
|`sql.insights.anomaly_detection.latency_threshold`                      | `50 ms`       | The latency threshold at which a statement execution is detected and flagged for insights.                                                                     | Statement executions                 |
|`sql.insights.anomaly_detection.memory_limit`                           | `1` MiB       | The maximum amount of memory allowed for tracking statement latencies.                                                                                         | Statement executions                 |
|`sql.insights.latency_threshold`                                        | `100 ms`      | The threshold at which the contention duration of a contended transaction is considered High Contention Time or statement execution is flagged for insights.   | Statement and Transaction executions |
|`sql.insights.high_retry_count.threshold`                               | `10`          | The threshold at which a retry count is considered High Retry Count.                                                                                           | Statement executions                 |
|`sql.insights.execution_insights_capacity`                              | `1000`        | The maximum number of execution insights stored in each node.                                                                                                  | Statement executions                 |
|`sql.contention.event_store.capacity`                                   | `64 MiB`      | The in-memory storage capacity of the contention event store in each nodes.                                                                                    | Transaction executions               |
|`sql.contention.event_store.duration_threshold`                         | `0`           | The minimum contention duration to cause contention events to be collected into the `crdb_internal.transaction_contention_events` table.                       | Transaction executions               |

### Schema insights settings

You can configure whether and what index recommendations display in [Schema Insights](#schema-insights-view) and the [Databases page](ui-databases-page.html) with the following cluster settings.

| Setting                                                                | Default value | Description                                                                                                             | Where used                           |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
|`sql.metrics.statement_details.index_recommendation_collection.enabled` | `true`        | Whether or not index recommendations are enabled.                                                                       | Schema Insights and Databases        |
|`sql.index_recommendation.drop_unused_duration`                         | `7 days`      | Duration of time an index must be unused before a recommendation to drop it.                                            | Schema Insights and Databases        |
|`sql.metrics.statement_details.max_mem_reported_idx_recommendations`    | `5000`        | The maximum number of reported index recommendations stored in memory.                                                  | Schema Insights and Databases        |

## See also

- [Statements page](ui-statements-page.html)
- [Transactions page](ui-transactions-page.html)
- [Databases page](ui-databases-page.html)
- [Assign privileges](security-reference/authorization.html#managing-privileges)
- [`GRANT`](grant.html)
- [Raw status endpoints](monitoring-and-alerting.html#raw-status-endpoints)

Commit message:

Add missing field and Copy button in confirmation dialog.

v22.2/ui-insights-page.md, after:

---
title: Insights Page
summary: The Insights page provides insights into and actions you can take to improve the performance of your application.
toc: true
docs_area: reference.db_console
---

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/ui/admin-access.md %}

The **Insights** page provides insights into and actions you can take to improve the performance of your application.

{% include_cached new-in.html version="v22.2" %} The **Insights** page  of the DB Console helps you:

- Identify high latency [SQL transactions](transactions.html) and [SQL statements](sql-statements.html).
- Identify SQL statements with [high retry counts](transactions.html#automatic-retries), [slow execution](query-behavior-troubleshooting.html#identify-slow-queries), or [suboptimal plans](cost-based-optimizer.html).
- Identify [Indexes](indexes.html) that should be created, altered, replaced, or dropped to achieve read and write performance objectives.


## Workload Insights tab

The Workload Insights tab displays insights related to transaction and statement executions.

### Transaction Executions view

To display this view, click **Insights** in the left-hand navigation of the DB Console. The **Workload Insights > Transaction Executions** view is selected.

The **Transaction Executions** view provides an overview of all transaction executions that have been flagged with insights.

The rows in this page are populated from the [`crdb_internal.transaction_contention_events`](crdb-internal.html#transaction_contention_events) table.
The results displayed in the Transaction Executions view will be available as long as the corresponding row in the `crdb_internal.transaction_contention_events` table exists
and as long as the rows in each node use less space than `sql.contention.event_store.capacity`.

Transaction executions with the insight High Contention are transactions that experienced contention.

- **Transaction Execution ID**: The execution ID of the latest execution with the transaction fingerprint.
- **Transaction Fingerprint ID**: The transaction fingerprint ID of the latest transaction execution.
- **Transaction Execution**: The transaction fingerprint of the latest transaction execution.
- **Insights**: the insight for the transaction execution.
  - **High Contention**: The transaction execution experienced high contention time according to the threshold set in `sql.insights.latency_threshold`.
- **Start Time (UTC)**: The time the transaction execution started.
- **Contention Time**: The amount of time the transaction execution spent waiting in contention.
- **Application Name**: The name specified by the [`application_name`](show-vars.html#supported-variables) session setting.

The following screenshot shows the execution of a transaction in the [ycsb](cockroach-workload.html#run-the-ycsb-workload) workload flagged with High Contention:

<img src="{{ 'images/v22.2/transaction_execution.png' | relative_url }}" alt="Transaction execution" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

To view details of the execution, click an execution ID in the **Transaction Execution ID** column.

#### Transaction Executions Details

The **Transaction Executions Details** view provides more details on a transaction execution insight.

The following screenshot shows the execution details of the transaction execution in the preceding section:

<img src="{{ 'images/v22.2/transaction_execution_details.png' | relative_url }}" alt="Transaction execution details" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

Additional details include:

- **Start Time (UTC)**: The time the transaction execution started.
- **Transaction Fingerprint ID**: The transaction fingerprint ID of the transaction execution.

##### Contention Time Insights

- **Time Spent Waiting**: The amount of time the transaction execution spent waiting.
- **Blocked Schema**: The name of the schema on which the transaction execution was running when it waited.
- **Blocked Database**: The name of the database on which the transaction execution was running when it waited.
- **Blocked Table**: The name of the table on which the transaction execution was running when it waited.

##### Transactions waiting with ID

The list of the transaction executions that waited on the blocking transaction execution contains the following information about each transaction:

- **Transaction Execution ID**: The execution ID of the execution with the transaction fingerprint.
- **Transaction Fingerprint ID**: The transaction fingerprint ID of the transaction execution.
- **Transaction Execution**: The transaction fingerprint of the transaction execution.
- **Start Time (UTC)**: The time the transaction execution started.
- **Elapsed Time**: The time that elapsed to complete the transaction execution.

### Statement Executions view

The **Statement Executions** view provides an overview of all statement executions that have been flagged with insights.

To display this view, click **Insights** in the left-hand navigation of the DB Console and select **Workload Insights > Statement Executions**.

The rows in this page are populated from the [`crdb_internal.cluster_execution_insights`](crdb-internal.html) table.
The results displayed on the Statement Executions view will be available as long as the number of rows in each node is less than `sql.insights.execution_insights_capacity`.

- **Statement Execution ID**: The execution ID of the latest execution with the statement fingerprint.
- **Statement Fingerprint ID**: The statement fingerprint ID of the latest statement execution.
- **Statement Execution**: The [statement fingerprint](ui-statements-page.html#sql-statement-fingerprints) of the latest statement execution.
- **Insights**: The insight for the statement execution.
  - **High Contention**: The statement execution experienced high contention time according to the threshold set in `sql.insights.latency_threshold`.
  - **High Retry Count**: The statement execution experienced a high number of retries according to the threshold set in `sql.insights.high_retry_count.threshold`.
  - **Suboptimal Plan**: The statement execution experienced a suboptimal plan.
  - **Failed**: The statement execution failed.
  - **Slow Execution**: The statement execution experienced slow execution according to the threshold set in
- **Start Time (UTC)**: The time the statement execution started.
- **Elapsed Time**: The time that elapsed to complete the statement execution.
- **User Name**: The name of the user that invoked the statement execution.
- **Application Name**: The name specified by the [`application_name`](show-vars.html#supported-variables) session setting.
- **Rows Processed**: The total number of rows read and written.
- **Retries**: The number of times the statement execution was retried.
- **Contention Time**: The amount of time the statement execution spent waiting in contention.
- **Full Scan**: Whether the execution performed a full scan of the table.
- **Transaction Execution ID**: The ID of the transaction execution for the statement execution.
- **Transaction Fingerprint ID**: The ID of the transaction fingerprint for the statement execution.

The following screenshot shows the statement execution of the query described in [Use the right index]({{ link_prefix }}apply-statement-performance-rules.html#rule-2-use-the-right-index):

<img src="{{ 'images/v22.2/statement_executions.png' | relative_url }}" alt="Statement execution" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

To view details of the execution, click an execution ID in the **Statement Execution ID** column.

#### Statement Execution Details

The **Statement Execution Details** view provides more details on a statement execution insight. Additional information includes:

- **Start Time**: The time the statement execution started.
- **End Time**: The time the statement execution ended.
- **Elapsed Time**: The time that elapsed during statement execution.
- **Rows Read**: The total number of rows read.
- **Rows Written**: The total number of rows written.
- **Transaction Priority**: The [priority](transactions.html#set-transaction-priority) of the transaction for the statement execution.
- **Full Scan**: Whether the execution performed a full scan of the table.
- **Session ID**: The ID of the [session](ui-sessions-page.html) the statement was executed from.
- **Transaction Fingerprint ID**: The ID of the transaction fingerprint for the statement execution.
- **Transaction Execution ID**: The ID of the transaction execution for the statement execution.
- **Statement Fingerprint ID**: The fingerprint ID of the statement fingerprint for the statement execution..

The following screenshot shows the execution details of the statement execution in the preceding section:

<img src="{{ 'images/v22.2/statement_execution_details.png' | relative_url }}" alt="Statement execution details" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

The Insights column shows the name of the insight, in this case **Suboptimal Plan**, the Details column provides details on the insight, and the final column contains a button to perform a query to mitigate the cause of the insight,
in this case to create an index on the ride start time that stores the rider ID.

## Schema Insights view

To display this view, click **Insights** in the left-hand navigation of the DB Console and select **Schema Insights**.

This view lists the indexes that have not been used and should be dropped and or the ones that should be created, altered, or replaced (based on statement execution).

- The drop recommendations are the same as those on the [Databases](ui-databases-page.html) page.
- The create, alter, and replace recommendations are the same as those on the [Explain Plans tab](ui-statements-page.html#insights) on the Statements page. The Explain Plans tab shows all recommendations, however this page shows only the latest recommendations for that statement fingerprint. If you execute a statement again after creating or updating an index, the recommendation disappears.

The following screenshot shows the insight that displays after you run the query described in [Use the right index]({{ link_prefix }}apply-statement-performance-rules.html#rule-2-use-the-right-index) 6 or more times:

<img src="{{ 'images/v22.2/schema_insight.png' | relative_url }}" alt="Schema insight" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

- **Insights:** Contains one of the following insight types: **Create Index**, **Alter Index**, **Replace Index**, **Drop Unused Index**.
- **Details:** Details for each insight. Different insight types display different details fields:
    - Create, Alter, or Replace Index: a Statement Fingerprint field, which displays the statement fingerprint that would be optimized with the creation, alteration, or replacement of the index, and a Recommendation field, which displays the SQL query to create, alter, or replace the index.
    - Drop Unused Index: an Index field, which displays the name of the index to drop, and a Description field, which displays the reason for dropping the index.

To realize the schema insight, click the action button in the final column to execute the SQL statement. A confirmation dialog displays warning you of the cost of [online schema changes](online-schema-changes.html) and a button to copy the SQL statement for later execution in a SQL client.

## Configuration

You can configure the behavior of insights using the following [cluster settings](cluster-settings.html).

### Workload insights settings

You can configure whether and what insights display in [Workload Insights](#workload-insights-tab) with the following cluster settings.

| Setting                                                                | Default value | Description                                                                                                                                                    | Where used                           |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
|`sql.insights.anomaly_detection.enabled`                                | `true`        | Whether or not insight detection is enabled.                                                                                                                   | Statement executions                 |
|`sql.insights.anomaly_detection.latency_threshold`                      | `50 ms`       | The latency threshold at which a statement execution is detected and flagged for insights.                                                                     | Statement executions                 |
|`sql.insights.anomaly_detection.memory_limit`                           | `1` MiB       | The maximum amount of memory allowed for tracking statement latencies.                                                                                         | Statement executions                 |
|`sql.insights.latency_threshold`                                        | `100 ms`      | The threshold at which the contention duration of a contended transaction is considered High Contention Time or statement execution is flagged for insights.   | Statement and Transaction executions |
|`sql.insights.high_retry_count.threshold`                               | `10`          | The threshold at which a retry count is considered High Retry Count.                                                                                           | Statement executions                 |
|`sql.insights.execution_insights_capacity`                              | `1000`        | The maximum number of execution insights stored in each node.                                                                                                  | Statement executions                 |
|`sql.contention.event_store.capacity`                                   | `64 MiB`      | The in-memory storage capacity of the contention event store in each nodes.                                                                                    | Transaction executions               |
|`sql.contention.event_store.duration_threshold`                         | `0`           | The minimum contention duration to cause contention events to be collected into the `crdb_internal.transaction_contention_events` table.                       | Transaction executions               |

### Schema insights settings

You can configure whether and what index recommendations display in [Schema Insights](#schema-insights-view) and the [Databases page](ui-databases-page.html) with the following cluster settings.

| Setting                                                                | Default value | Description                                                                                                             | Where used                           |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
|`sql.metrics.statement_details.index_recommendation_collection.enabled` | `true`        | Whether or not index recommendations are enabled.                                                                       | Schema Insights and Databases        |
|`sql.index_recommendation.drop_unused_duration`                         | `7 days`      | Duration of time an index must be unused before a recommendation to drop it.                                            | Schema Insights and Databases        |
|`sql.metrics.statement_details.max_mem_reported_idx_recommendations`    | `5000`        | The maximum number of reported index recommendations stored in memory.                                                  | Schema Insights and Databases        |

## See also

- [Statements page](ui-statements-page.html)
- [Transactions page](ui-transactions-page.html)
- [Databases page](ui-databases-page.html)
- [Assign privileges](security-reference/authorization.html#managing-privileges)
- [`GRANT`](grant.html)
- [Raw status endpoints](monitoring-and-alerting.html#raw-status-endpoints)
