v22.2/with-storage-parameter.md, before:

---
title: WITH (storage parameter)
summary: WITH (storage parameter) applies a storage parameter to a table or an index at creation time.
toc: true
docs_area: reference.sql
---

The `WITH (storage parameter)` [statement](sql-statements.html) sets a storage parameter on a table.

## Syntax

**create_index_with_storage_param ::=**

<div>
{% remote_include https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cockroachdb/generated-diagrams/{{ page.release_info.crdb_branch_name }}/grammar_svg/create_index_with_storage_param.html %}
</div>

**create_table_with_storage_param ::=**

<div>
{% remote_include https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cockroachdb/generated-diagrams/{{ page.release_info.crdb_branch_name }}/grammar_svg/create_table_with_storage_param.html %}
</div>


## Command parameters

| Parameter           | Description          |
|---------------------+----------------------|
| `table`             | The table to which you are setting the parameter.  |
| `index`             | The index to which you are setting the parameter.  |
| `parameter_name`    | The name of the storage parameter. See [Storage parameters](#storage-parameters) for a list of available parameters. |

## Storage parameters

### Index parameters

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/misc/index-storage-parameters.md %}

### Table parameters

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/misc/table-storage-parameters.md %}

## Required privileges

The user must be a member of the [`admin`](security-reference/authorization.html#roles) or [owner](security-reference/authorization.html#object-ownership) roles, or have the [`CREATE` privilege](security-reference/authorization.html#supported-privileges) on the table.

## Examples

### Create a table with row-level TTL enabled

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
CREATE TABLE ttl_test (
  id UUID PRIMARY KEY default gen_random_uuid(),
  description TEXT,
  inserted_at TIMESTAMP default current_timestamp()
) WITH (ttl_expire_after = '3 months');
~~~

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
SHOW CREATE TABLE ttl_test;
~~~

~~~
  table_name |                                                                                           create_statement
-------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  ttl_test   | CREATE TABLE public.ttl_test (
             |     id UUID NOT NULL DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
             |     description STRING NULL,
             |     inserted_at TIMESTAMP NULL DEFAULT current_timestamp():::TIMESTAMP,
             |     crdb_internal_expiration TIMESTAMPTZ NOT VISIBLE NOT NULL DEFAULT current_timestamp():::TIMESTAMPTZ + '3 mons':::INTERVAL ON UPDATE current_timestamp():::TIMESTAMPTZ + '3 mons':::INTERVAL,
             |     CONSTRAINT ttl_test_pkey PRIMARY KEY (id ASC)
             | ) WITH (ttl = 'on', ttl_automatic_column = 'on', ttl_expire_after = '3 mons':::INTERVAL)
(1 row)
~~~

In this case, CockroachDB implicitly added the `ttl` and `ttl_automatic_column` storage parameters.

## See also

- [`CREATE TABLE`](create-table.html)
- [Take Full and Incremental Backups](take-full-and-incremental-backups.html)
- [`BACKUP`](backup.html)
- [`RESTORE`](restore.html)
- [`SET` (storage parameter)](set-storage-parameter.html)
- [`RESET` (storage parameter)](reset-storage-parameter.html)

Commit message:

Update Row-Level TTL docs to note full support
Fixes:

- DOC-4664
- DOC-4672
- DOC-4756
- DOC-4881
- DOC-5270
- DOC-5983
- DOC-5995

Summary of changes:

- Update 'Batch Delete Data with Row-Level TTL' page to note:

  - You can now do per-row TTL using `ttl_expiration_expression`, so we
    mention that and give examples, describe how it's validated

  - Remove at least the resolved limitations from the TTL docs and the
    'Known Limitations' page

  - Remove uses of `ttl_automatic_column' which is no longer used in
    v22.2+

  - Remove `ttl_range_concurrency`, which is no longer available in
    v22.2+ per cockroachdb/cockroach#89392

  - Add note on migrating from versions < v22.2

  - Add recommendation that most users use `ttl_expiration_expression`
    over `ttl_expire_after`

    - Including moving sections of the page to put the expression info
      first

- Add page for TTL Dashboard in DB Console docs

- Update 'WITH storage_parameter' page to use new output / TTL params

- Update 'RESET storage_parameter' page to use new output / TTL params

- Update included table of storage parameters to remove duplication of
  TTL params, instead linking to the canonical location on the TTL docs page

v22.2/with-storage-parameter.md, after:

---
title: WITH (storage parameter)
summary: WITH (storage parameter) applies a storage parameter to a table or an index at creation time.
toc: true
docs_area: reference.sql
---

The `WITH (storage parameter)` [statement](sql-statements.html) sets a storage parameter on a table.

## Syntax

**create_index_with_storage_param ::=**

<div>
{% remote_include https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cockroachdb/generated-diagrams/{{ page.release_info.crdb_branch_name }}/grammar_svg/create_index_with_storage_param.html %}
</div>

**create_table_with_storage_param ::=**

<div>
{% remote_include https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cockroachdb/generated-diagrams/{{ page.release_info.crdb_branch_name }}/grammar_svg/create_table_with_storage_param.html %}
</div>


## Command parameters

| Parameter           | Description          |
|---------------------+----------------------|
| `table`             | The table to which you are setting the parameter.  |
| `index`             | The index to which you are setting the parameter.  |
| `parameter_name`    | The name of the storage parameter. See [Storage parameters](#storage-parameters) for a list of available parameters. |

## Storage parameters

### Index parameters

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/misc/index-storage-parameters.md %}

### Table parameters

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/misc/table-storage-parameters.md %}

### Row-level TTL parameters

For the list of storage parameters that affect how [Row-Level TTL](row-level-ttl.html) works, see the list of [TTL storage parameters](row-level-ttl.html#ttl-storage-parameters).

## Required privileges

The user must be a member of the [`admin`](security-reference/authorization.html#roles) or [owner](security-reference/authorization.html#object-ownership) roles, or have the [`CREATE` privilege](security-reference/authorization.html#supported-privileges) on the table.

## Examples

### Create a table with row-level TTL enabled

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
CREATE TABLE ttl_test (
  id UUID PRIMARY KEY default gen_random_uuid(),
  description TEXT,
  inserted_at TIMESTAMP default current_timestamp()
) WITH (ttl_expire_after = '3 months');
~~~

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
SHOW CREATE TABLE ttl_test;
~~~

~~~
  table_name |                                                                                         create_statement
-------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  ttl_test   | CREATE TABLE public.ttl_test (
             |     id UUID NOT NULL DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
             |     description STRING NULL,
             |     inserted_at TIMESTAMP NULL DEFAULT current_timestamp():::TIMESTAMP,
             |     crdb_internal_expiration TIMESTAMPTZ NOT VISIBLE NOT NULL DEFAULT current_timestamp():::TIMESTAMPTZ + '3 mons':::INTERVAL ON UPDATE current_timestamp():::TIMESTAMPTZ + '3 mons':::INTERVAL,
             |     CONSTRAINT ttl_test_pkey PRIMARY KEY (id ASC)
             | ) WITH (ttl = 'on', ttl_expire_after = '3 mons':::INTERVAL, ttl_job_cron = '@hourly')
(1 row)
~~~

In this case, CockroachDB implicitly added the `ttl` and `ttl_job_cron` [TTL storage parameters](row-level-ttl.html#ttl-storage-parameters).

## See also

- [`CREATE TABLE`](create-table.html)
- [Take Full and Incremental Backups](take-full-and-incremental-backups.html)
- [`BACKUP`](backup.html)
- [`RESTORE`](restore.html)
- [`SET` (storage parameter)](set-storage-parameter.html)
- [`RESET` (storage parameter)](reset-storage-parameter.html)
- [Batch Delete Expired Data with Row-Level TTL](row-level-ttl.html)
