## v20.2.0-rc.3

Release Date: October 26, 2020

{{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}
{% include /v20.2/alerts/warning-a58932.md %}
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

{% include releases/release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v20-2-0-rc-3-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- Added the Transactions and Transactions Details pages. These pages allow for viewing stats at the transaction level. [#55717][#55717]

<h3 id="v20-2-0-rc-3-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Previously, we used the `HTTPS_PROXY` variable for the "join RPC" when adding a node to the cluster (the RPC prevents new clusters from starting or adding nodes to an existing cluster). The proxy needed to be configured to transparently pass HTTP/2+GRPC inter-node traffic. This was an unintentional addition, and this patch ignores the proxies for all intra-node traffic. They were already ignored in releases prior to v20.2 testing releases. [#55504][#55504]
- Previously, the filenames for generated goroutine, CPU, and memory profiles were sometimes incorrect, which resulted in repeated warnings like `strconv.ParseUint: parsing "txt": invalid syntax` in log files. This has been corrected. [#55366][#55366]
- Fixed a bug that could occur for [spatial](../v20.2/spatial-features.html) queries involving a join between two spatial columns, when there was an additional filter on one of the spatial columns, and that column also had a [GIN index](../v20.2/inverted-indexes.html) defined. This bug could cause incorrect results to be returned, in which some rows were omitted from the output when they should have been included. [#55673][#55673]
- An [`INSERT`](../v20.2/insert.html) into a table with a [foreign key](../v20.2/foreign-key.html) reference to a table with a [partial index](../v20.2/partial-indexes.html) no longer causes an error. [#55703][#55703]
- [Foreign keys](../v20.2/foreign-key.html) can no longer reference columns that are only indexed by a partial unique index. A partial unique index does not guarantee uniqueness in the entire table; therefore, the column indexed is not guaranteed to be a unique key. [#55703][#55703]
- Previously, cluster [backups](../v20.2/backup.html) taken from before v20.2 could not be restored in v20.2 clusters, and would result in an error message about failing to restore a system table. This is now fixed. [#55719][#55719]
- Previously, changing the parent database and schema of a table using [`RENAME`](../v20.2/rename-table.html) was seemingly permitted but would lead to corruption of the table metadata. Now, an error is returned when attempting to rename a table to a different database&mdash; except in the case where both the source and target schemas are the `public` schema in each database, which continues to be supported. [#55723][#55723]
- Fixed a crash that would occur when performing a [`SHOW BACKUP`](../v20.2/show-backup.html) against a backup that contains a table that references a type in another database. This state was only reachable in v20.2 testing releases. [#55786][#55786]
- Tables can no longer be moved to a different database using the [`ALTER TABLE ... RENAME TO`](../v20.2/rename-table.html) statement if they have columns using user-defined types (i.e., [`ENUM`](../v20.2/enum.html)). [#55781][#55781]

<h3 id="v20-2-0-rc-3-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 14 merged PRs by 14 authors.

[#55366]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55366
[#55504]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55504
[#55639]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55639
[#55673]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55673
[#55703]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55703
[#55717]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55717
[#55719]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55719
[#55723]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55723
[#55781]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55781
[#55786]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55786
