## v20.2.17

Release Date: October 11, 2021

This page lists additions and changes in v20.2.17 since v20.2.16.

{% include releases/release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v20-2-17-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- Changed references to the [UI console](../v20.2/ui-overview.html) from "Admin UI" to "DB Console". [#70882][#70882]

<h3 id="v20-2-17-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug that caused internal errors with [set operations](../v20.2/selection-queries.html#set-operations) (e.g., `UNION`) and columns with tuple types that contained constant `NULL` values. This bug was introduced in version 20.2.0. [#69270][#69270]
- Fixed a bug causing table stats collection issued via an [`EXPLAIN ANALYZE`](../v20.2/explain-analyze.html) statement or via a [`CREATE STATISTICS`](../v20.2/create-statistics.html) statement to run into a "`flow: memory budget exceeded`" error if the statement was executed without specifying the [`AS OF SYSTEM TIME`](../v20.2/as-of-system-time.html) option. [#69590][#69590]
- Fixed a bug causing a prepared statement to incorrectly reuse the query plan of a different prepared statement that had similar, but not identical type hints. [#67687][#67687]
- Fixed a bug causing other nodes in the cluster to fail to connect to a restarted node due to their circuit breakers not resetting after a temporary node outage. This would manifest in the logs in messages of the form "`unable to dial nXX: breaker open`", where `XX` is the ID of the restarted node. Note that such errors are expected for nodes that are truly unreachable, and could still occur around the time of the restart, but for no longer than a few seconds. [#70353][#70353]
- [`RESTORE`](../v20.2/restore.html) now correctly ignores [dropped databases](../v20.2/drop-database.html) that may have been included in cluster backups with revision history. [#69795][#69795]
- DNS unavailability during range 1 leaseholder loss no longer causes significant latency increases for queries and other operations. [#70133][#70133]
- Addressed a memory corruption issue in [Pebble](../v20.2/architecture/storage-layer.html#pebble) when running with `CGO_ENABLED=0`. [#70995][#70995]
- Addressed an issue in Pebble where a key can be dropped from an LSM snapshot if the key was deleted by a range tombstone after the snapshot was acquired. [#70995][#70995]
- Addressed an issue in Pebble where a crash between the creation of the WAL and the MANIFEST could leave the second most WAL with an unclean tail that would be considered corruption on a subsequent Open. [#70995][#70995]

<h3 id="v20-2-17-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 11 merged PRs by 11 authors.

[#67687]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/67687
[#69270]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/69270
[#69590]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/69590
[#69795]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/69795
[#70133]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70133
[#70353]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70353
[#70882]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70882
[#70995]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70995
