## v20.2.0-alpha.2

Release Date: July 27, 2020

{{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}
{% include /v20.2/alerts/warning-a58932.md %}
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

{% include releases/release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v20-2-0-alpha-2-backward-incompatible-changes">Backward-incompatible changes</h3>

- The [`SHOW RANGE FOR ROW`](../v20.2/show-range-for-row.html) statement now takes a tuple of the row's index columns instead of the full column set of the row. [#50479][#50479] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Previously, issuing a `SIGTERM` signal twice or after another signal initiated a hard shutdown for a node. Now the first `SIGTERM` signal initiates a graceful shutdown and further occurrences of `SIGTERM` are ignored. To initiate a hard shutdown, issue `SIGINT` two times (or issue a `SIGINT` signal once after a `SIGTERM` signal). [#50539][#50539] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Specifying the same option multiple times in the `WITH` clause of the [`BACKUP`](../v20.2/backup.html) statement now results in an error message. Additionally, quoted option names are not allowed anymore. [#50723][#50723] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- For expression typing involving only operations on constant literals, each constant literal is now assigned a [`type`](../v20.2/data-types.html) before calculation. Previously, a `type` was assigned only to the result. [#50254][#50254] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}

<h3 id="v20-2-0-alpha-2-security-updates">Security updates</h3>

- HTTP endpoints beginning with `/debug/` now require a valid [admin](../v20.2/authorization.html) login session. [#50483][#50483] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}

<h3 id="v20-2-0-alpha-2-general-changes">General changes</h3>

- Go 1.14 is now the minimum required version necessary to build CockroachDB. [#50671][#50671] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- The docker image available with CockroachDB now includes the GEOS files required to work with [Geospatial types](../v20.2/spatial-data.html) in CockroachDB. [#50362][#50362] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Schema changes are now logged in greater detail. [#50372][#50372] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Added new options to YCSB to mirror OpenSource YCSB options. [#50546][#50546] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Links returned in error messages that point to unimplemented issues now use the CockroachLabs redirect/short-link server. [#49836][#49836]

<h3 id="v20-2-0-alpha-2-enterprise-edition-changes">Enterprise edition changes</h3>

- The default flush interval for [changefeeds](../v20.2/stream-data-out-of-cockroachdb-using-changefeeds.html) that do not specify a `RESOLVED` option is now 5s instead of 200ms to more gracefully handle higher-latency sinks. [#49770][#49770] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- [Full cluster restore](../v20.2/restore.html#full-cluster) is now more resilient to transient transaction retry errors while it restores. [#49950][#49950]
- [`RESTORE`](../v20.2/restore.html) now remaps user-defined types within the backup to existing types in the cluster. [#50349][#50349] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- `BACKUP` can now run in a new `detached` mode, which means the Job ID is now returned immediately without waiting for the `BACKUP` job to finish. [#50775][#50775] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}

<h3 id="v20-2-0-alpha-2-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

<h4 id="v20-2-0-alpha-2-geospatial-changes">Geospatial changes</h4>

- Implemented the following built-ins: `ST_Transform`, `ST_Intersection`, `ST_PointOnSurface`, and `ST_Union`, `ST_Segmentize({geometry, float8})`, `ST_Project({geography,float8,float8})`, `ST_LongestLine({geometry, geometry})`, `ST_Azimuth({geometry,geometry})`, `ST_ShortestLine({geometry, geometry})`, `ST_Centroid ({geometry,bool})` functions.  [#49783][#49783], [#49833][#49833], [#49827][#49827], [#49949][#49949], [#50018][#50018], [#50188][#50188], [#50292][#50292], [#50484][#50484] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Implemented the following built-ins: `GeometryType`, `PostGIS_AddBBox`, `PostGIS_DropBBox`,  `PostGIS_Extensions_Upgrade`, `PostGIS_Full_Version`, `PostGIS_GEOS_Version`, `PostGIS_HasBBox`, `PostGIS_LibXML_Version`, `PostGIS_Lib_Build_Date`, `PostGIS_Lib_Version`, `PostGIS_Liblwgeom_Version`, `PostGIS_PROJ_Version`, `PostGIS_Scripts_Build_Date`, `PostGIS_Scripts_Installed`, `PostGIS_Scripts_Released`, `PostGIS_Version`, `PostGIS_Wagyu_Version`. [#50589][#50589] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Added support for casting `GEOGRAPHY` and `GEOMETRY` types to and from `Bytes`/`JSONB`. [#50577][#50577] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Implemented `ST_AsGeoJSON` with options to show `bbox` and `CRS` information. [#49888][#49888] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Introduced `maxDecimalDigits` arguments for `ST_AsText` and `ST_AsEWKT`, which allow rounding of the decimal digits output in the `WKT` representation. [#49875][#49875] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Populated the `spatial_ref_sys` table with support SRID entries for geospatial data types. [#49887][#49887] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Implemented the `ST_Azimuth` functionality for the geography operator. [#50708][#50708] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- `GEOMETRY` now coerce invalid geography coordinates into correct geometry. [#50457][#50457] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Added support for `AddGeometryColumn` and other functions that mutate schema in `IMPORT PGDUMP`. [#50850][#50850] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}

<h4 id="v20-2-0-alpha-2-general-sql-updates">General SQL updates</h4>

- For Postgres compatibility, CockroachDB now supports the `ANALYZE <tablename>` statement that collects statistics on the given table for use by the [optimizer](../v20.2/cost-based-optimizer.html). The statement is functionally equivalent to the existing [`CREATE STATISTICS`](../v20.2/create-statistics.html) statement. [#49816][#49816] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- The [vectorized execution engine](../v20.2/cost-based-optimizer.html) now supports the `JSONFetchVal(->)` operator, the `Pow` operator, the `Bitand` (`&`), `Bitor` (`|`), `Bitxor` (`^`), `FloorDiv` (`//`), and `Mod` (`%`) binary operators, and the binary shift (`>>` and `<<`) operators. [#49818][#49818], [#49761][#49761], [#50143][#50143], [#50417][#50417] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- The [vectorized execution engine](../v20.2/cost-based-optimizer.html) now supports `AVG` and `SUM` aggregate functions on `Int`s and `Interval`s. [#49900][#49900] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- The [vectorized execution engine](../v20.2/cost-based-optimizer.html) now fully supports the `SUM` aggregate function (previously, the summation of integers was incomplete). [#49900][#49900] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- The [vectorized execution engine](../v20.2/cost-based-optimizer.html) now supports the `MIN` and `MAX` aggregate functions on columns of `INT2` and `INT4` [`types`](../v20.2/data-types.html). [#49900][#49900] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- The [optimizer](../v20.2/cost-based-optimizer.html) can now remove an unnecessary [join](../v20.2/joins.html) from the input of a `Project` operator. [#49788][#49788] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- The [optimizer](../v20.2/cost-based-optimizer.html) can now fold two `Limit` operators together. [#49931][#49931] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Improved performance for queries with a limit on a [join](../v20.2/joins.html) that is guaranteed to preserve input rows. [#49802][#49802]
- Added the `crdb_internal.databases` virtual table. [#49522][#49522]
- Referencing types across databases has been disabled. [#49841][#49841] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Views now only create a dependency on a table's column if the column is referenced in the view definition. Previously, all columns in a table referenced in a view were added to the view's dependencies. [#49872][#49872] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- The `pgdate` util can now parse `db2` formatted timestamps. This can be used to import `db2` dumps. [#50011][#50011] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- For some [`EXPLAIN`](../v20.2/explain.html) variants, the property `distributed` for the output variable `Field` has been renamed as `distribution` and can have `local`, `partial`, or `full` values. The `partial` state is currently only possible with the experimental setting. [#49857][#49857] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Added support for the `ALTER COLUMN TYPE ... USING EXPRESSION` statement to allow users to optionally provide an expression to convert a column to a new [`type`](../v20.2/data-types.html). [#49452][#49452] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Enhanced the [optimizer](../v20.2/cost-based-optimizer.html)'s ability to reorder joins. [#49948][#49948]
- Enabled aggregate queries which collect key/value pairs into a JSON object. [#48306][#48306] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Removed the `optimizer_foreign_keys` and `experimental_optimizer_foreign_key_cascades` session settings (and their corresponding cluster settings). [#50185][#50185] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- `RegClass` expressions are now tracked as dependencies in views. For example, `CREATE VIEW v AS SELECT 't'::regclass;` will now add a dependency on table `t` for view `v`. [#50213][#50213] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Sequences passed as a string argument into views are now tracked as a dependency. For example, `CREATE VIEW v AS SELECT nextval('s')` will now add a dependency on sequence `s`. [#50103][#50103] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Fixed an error for the `ALTER COLUMN TYPE` statement for situations where the data matches byte for byte but CockroachDB needs to validate the `INT8` -> `INT4` conversion. [#50278][#50278]
- Previously, `infinity` evaluated to a negative value, `-292277022365-05-08T08:17:07Z`. Now `infinity` is the maximum supported timestamp in Postgres that is not infinity. Likewise, `-infinity` is the smallest supported value. Note that this work-in-progress feature currently does not behave exactly like `infinity` in Postgres. [#50311][#50311] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- The `CHAR` column [`type`](../v20.2/data-types.html) will now truncate the trailing space characters in line with Postgres. Existing stored `CHAR` entries with spaces at the end of the `CHAR` column [`type`](../v20.2/data-types.html) will no longer return rows with trailing space characters. Use the `LIKE` query to find and modify these rows. [#50492][#50492] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Disabled arrays in non-GIN indexes. [#50662][#50662] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Enabled dropping indexes used in outbound foreign key relationships. [#50769][#50769] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- CockroachDB no longer writes to the slow query log unless explicitly enabled. [#50898][#50898] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- [`IMPORT INTO`](../v20.2/import-into.html) now supports columns with constant default expressions, and non-targeted columns with constant default expressions are no longer required to be nullable. [#50295][#50295] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}

<h3 id="v20-2-0-alpha-2-command-line-changes">Command-line changes</h3>

- Advanced troubleshooting information (such as internal details from the Go runtime) is now saved in a separate log file named `<program>-stderr.xxx.log` in the configured log directory.  [#48051][#48051] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- The server CLI commands ([`start`](../v20.2/cockroach-start.html), [`start-single-node`](../v20.2/cockroach-start-single-node.html), [`demo`](../v20.2/cockroach-demo.html)) now support a new flag named `--redactable-logs`, which introduces markers in generated log entries to facilitate redaction of sensitive information by [`cockroach debug zip`](../v20.2/cockroach-debug-zip.html) and other CockroachDB APIs. This is an experimental feature currently not enabled by default, but is recommended for all deployments and will be enabled by default in a later version.  Note: the flag is *advertised* (in `--help`) by `cockroach start` and `cockroach start-single-node`, where log files are expected as a matter of course; it is also supported, yet *hidden* (from `--help`), by every other CLI command because every command can also produce log entries when passed `--log-dir` or `--logtostderr`. [#48051][#48051] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- The commands [`cockroach debug zip`](../v20.2/cockroach-debug-zip.html) and [`cockroach debug merge-logs`](../v20.2/cockroach-debug-merge-logs.html) support a new flag `--redact-logs`. When specified, it causes log messages that potentially contain confidential data or PII to be redacted away.  This feature is experimental.  Note: Currently, this redaction is extremely aggressive and may hinder the ability of Cockroach Labs to investigate issues from log files, especially if `--redactable-logs` is not enabled server-side.  Other potentially-confidential data may still be retrieved by `cockroach debug zip`; the new flag only applies to retrieved log files inside the output zip file. [#48051][#48051] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- `cockroach node decommission --wait=live` is no longer supported. It was deprecated in an earlier release. [#49666][#49666] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- `cockroach quit` is now deprecated. Use the subcommands for [`cockroach node`](../v20.2/cockroach-node.html) instead, and use termination signals to quit the `cockroach` process. [#49668][#49668] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Allowed [`cockroach dump`](../v20.2/cockroach-dump.html) to dump tables and databases that contain user-defined types. [#49808][#49808] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- The commands [`cockroach node decommission`](../v20.2/cockroach-node.html#node-decommission) and [`cockroach node recommission`](../v20.2/cockroach-node.html#node-recommission) now recognize a new flag named `--self`. This can be passed *instead* of an explicit list of node IDs, and indicates that the operation targets the node the command is connected to (either via `--host` if specified, or `localhost`). [#50532][#50532] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- The command-line flag `--log-dir-max-size` is now deprecated and has been replaced with a new flag named `--log-group-max-size`. The flags limit the combined size of all files generated by one *logging group* inside CockroachDB. [#50599][#50599] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}

<h3 id="v20-2-0-alpha-2-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- CockroachDB now preserves the selected tab on the [`Statements` page](../v20.2/ui-statements-page.html) after reload. [#48090][#48090]
- Fixed [`Statements` page](../v20.2/ui-statements-page.html) crash on database names with `/`. [#47423][#47423]
- The `Statements` page now shows if the vectorized execution engine is used or not. [#50255][#50255] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Updated the empty state design for the `Statement diagnostics history` page. [#46921][#46921]
- Updated the tooltip designs on the [`Overview`](../v20.2/ui-overview.html). [#46919][#46919] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Updated the [`Storage Dashboard`](../v20.2/ui-storage-dashboard.html). [#47523][#47523] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Fixed icon alignments for the Timeframe navigation buttons. [#50010][#50010] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- The `Queues` dashboard in the DB Console no longer shows a `Compaction Queue` graph, and the `Queue Processing Failures` and `Queue Processing Times` graphs no longer include the `Compaction` queue metrics. [#50245][#50245] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Updated the Login page design. [#46783][#46783] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Added a tooltip for the `Stats by Node` metric. [#50348][#50348]
- Changed the label for `std deviation` from `<` to `>` for positive values. [#50275][#50275] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Updated the message for the `Node logs` page when remote debugging is restricted for users by using the `server.remote_debugging.mode` cluster setting. [#49553][#49553] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- The sidebar navigation panel no longer displays the `Network Latency` menu for a single-node cluster. [#50269][#50269] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Aligned the `Units` selector and `Remove Chart` buttons on the same line. Search input for metric name now properly shows the search term. [#50334][#50334] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Added a collection of new metrics to track the method of requests sent as RPCs between cluster nodes. These metrics are named `distsender.rpc.<method>.sent`, with examples of `<method>` being `scan` and `conditionalput`. [#46747][#46747] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- The time range selector has been extended with a 30 minutes option for all `Metrics`. [#50810][#50810] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}

<h3 id="v20-2-0-alpha-2-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Previously, when doing a series of table creations and drops, subsequent [incremental backups](../v20.2/take-full-and-incremental-backups.html) ran into an error. This is now fixed. [#49776][#49776]
- The description provided with `--help` on the CLI for `--socket-dir` and `--socket` has been fixed. They were invalid since v20.1.0. [#49905][#49905]
- Previously, in some cases, CockroachDB didn't check whether the right argument of the `Div` (`/`), `FloorDiv` (`//`), or `Mod` (`%`) operations was zero, so instead of correctly returning a `division by zero` error, CockroachDB returned `NaN`, and this is now fixed. Additionally, the error message of `modulus by zero` has been changed to `division by zero` to be inline with Postgres. [#49761][#49761]
- Fixed an internal planning error that occurred for recursive CTEs (`WITH RECURSIVE` expressions) in which the left side of the [`UNION ALL`](../v20.2/selection-queries.html#union-combine-two-queries) query used in the CTE definition produced zero rows. [#49961][#49961]
- CockroachDB now correctly handles import cancellation and errors. [#49979][#49979]
- CockroachDB now correctly links producer/consumer during data import in order to handle errors correctly. [#49995][#49995]
- `extract(epoch from timestamptz)` from a session time zone not in UTC would previously return a value incorrectly offset by the session time zone. This has now been rectified. [#50071][#50071]
- Previously, when streaming values from a column declared of [`type`](../v20.2/data-types.html) `char(n)`, the length of the value could be `<= n`. Now all values streamed have length exactly `n` by padding spaces to the right if necessary. [#49886][#49886]
- Casting to width-limited strings now works correctly for strings containing Unicode characters. [#50156][#50156]
- Fixed some cases where casting a string to a width-limited string array was not truncating the string. [#50153][#50153]
- Previously, if a full cluster restore failed while restoring the system table data, it would not clean up properly and leave some temporary tables public and not dropped. This is now fixed. [#50003][#50003]
- The [`Statements` page](../v20.2/ui-statements-page.html) of the DB Console previously displayed incorrect information about whether or not the statement execution was distributed. [#50256][#50256]
- Fixed a bug where an `unexpected EOF` error would be returned at startup with the Pebble storage engine, if the last instance of `cockroach` crashed in a rare case of the write-ahead log being written to. [#50280][#50280]
- Fixed a recently introduced `no volatility for cast unknown::tuple` error. [#50436][#50436]
- CockroachDB now correctly populates the `rolvaliduntil` value for roles in `pg_roles` and `pg_authid`. [#50307][#50307]
- Fixed a bug affecting some [`DROP DATABASE`](../v20.2/drop-database.html) schema changes where multiple GC jobs are created, causing the GC job for the database to fail. GC jobs will no longer fail upon failing to find a table descriptor already deleted by a different GC job. [#50411][#50411]
- Fixed an internal error when referencing a [`type`](../v20.2/data-types.html) that does not exist by ID. [#50286][#50286]
- [Lookup join](../v20.2/joins.html#lookup-joins) predicate now shows proper column names in [`EXPLAIN`](../v20.2/explain.html). [#50441][#50441]
- The result of interpreting relative timestamps (like `now`, `today`) is no longer stored in cached plans. [#50320][#50320]
- Renaming a temporary table no longer converts it to a persistent table. The table continues to remain temporary after a rename. Moreover, users can no longer move a temp table into the `public` schema by providing a fully qualified name while renaming the table. [#50500][#50500]
- A server node now properly dumps Go stacks to its log file for troubleshooting upon receiving `SIGQUIT` during node shutdown. Previously, `SIGQUIT` was only recognized for this purpose while the node had not started shutting down already. [#50539][#50539]
- Previously performing [`ALTER TABLE..ADD COLUMN`](../v20.2/alter-table.html) with a computed expression allowed users to provide a column in a different table or database if the column name was the same. Similarly, users could provide an expression referring to another table's column when executing `ALTER COLUMN TYPE USING EXPRESSION`. This is no longer the case and all columns must refer to the column in the table being altered. [#50582][#50582]
- Fixed a bug where creating a sequence owned by a table's column and dropping the sequence would make it impossible to drop the table after. [#50665][#50665]
- Fixed a bug where Pebble iteration would skip over blocks that failed checksum verification rather than propagating the error to the caller. [#50697][#50697]
- Some `pg_catalog` queries that previously returned an error like `crdb_internal_vtable_pk column not allowed` now work again. [#50682][#50682]
- Fixed internal errors in some queries involving `CASE` expressions with `NULL` branches. [#50626][#50626]
- Fixed a rare bug where a multi-Range [`SELECT FOR UPDATE`](../v20.2/select-for-update.html) statement containing an `IN` clause could fail to observe a consistent snapshot and violate serializability. [#50633][#50633]
- Fixed a bug where a cluster restore would fail when the largest descriptor in the backup was a database. This was typically seen when the last action in backing up cluster was a database creation. [#50759][#50759]
- Fixed an internal error during planning for some queries with aggregate functions embedded in complex scalar expressions. [#50815][#50815]
- Fixed a bug where a badly timed power outage or system crash could result in an error upon process restart. [#50831][#50831]
- Fixed a bug where a cluster backup would appear as `BACKUP TABLE TO` rather than `BACKUP TO` in the jobs table. [#50760][#50760]
- Fixed the `column not in input` internal error for some corner cases. [#50845][#50845]
- [`DROP DATABASE CASCADE`](../v20.2/drop-database.html#drop-a-database-and-its-objects-cascade) now works as expected even when the database has a sequence with an owner in it. [#50744][#50744]

<h3 id="v20-2-0-alpha-2-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- Introduced a new flag named `server.consistency_check.max_rate` expressed in bytes/second to throttle the rate at which CockroachDB scans through the disk to perform a consistency check. This control is necessary to ensure smooth performance on a cluster with large node sizes (i.e., in the 10TB+ range) [#49763][#49763] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Fixed a performance regression in the [`SHOW DATABASES`](../v20.2/show-databases.html) command introduced in 20.1. [#49522][#49522]
- Limited [`SELECT`](../v20.2/select-clause.html) statements now do a better job avoiding unnecessary contention with [`UPDATE`](../v20.2/update.html) and [`SELECT FOR UPDATE`](../v20.2/select-for-update.html) statements. [#49980][#49980]
- `PGCOPY` import is now ~3.5x faster by parallelizing the conversion of raw input data to Datums. [#50016][#50016]
- Allowed the [optimizer](../v20.2/cost-based-optimizer.html) to use `enum` information to generate better query plans. [#49284][#49284]
- Range merges are now delayed for a short time after load-based splitting to prevent load-based split points from being merged away immediately after load is removed. [#50151][#50151]
- Transaction liveness pushes are now delayed by 50ms, up from 10ms. This allows high contention workloads to sustain high throughput up to much larger concurrency levels. [#50161][#50161] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Improved `sstable` files organization in the Pebble storage engine, which should significantly improve import performance. [#50371][#50371]
- Improved the [optimizer](../v20.2/cost-based-optimizer.html)'s estimation of the selectivity of some filters involving a disjunction (OR) of predicates over multiple columns. This results in more accurate cardinality estimation and enables the [optimizer](../v20.2/cost-based-optimizer.html) to choose better query plans in some cases. [#50456][#50456]
- Many queries that involve [`now()`](../v20.2/functions-and-operators.html#date-and-time-functions) are executed more efficiently; in particular, the result of `now()` can be used with an index. [#50320][#50320]
- Better execution plans in some cases involving [`EXISTS`](../v20.2/functions-and-operators.html#conditional-and-function-like-operators). [#50846][#50846]
- Smoothed out disk writes when transferring Range snapshots to avoid latency spikes for other concurrent operations. [#50866][#50866]

<h3 id="v20-2-0-alpha-2-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 446 merged PRs by 53 authors.
We would like to thank the following contributors from the CockroachDB community:

- Andrii Vorobiov
- Artem Barger
- Arun Ranganathan (first-time contributor)
- George Papadrosou
- Jaewan Park
- John Kendall (first-time contributor, CockroachDB team member)
- Jordan Ryan Reuter (first-time contributor, CockroachDB team member)
- Madeline Liao (first-time contributor, CockroachDB team member)
- Robert S Lee (first-time contributor)
- Ryan Min (first-time contributor, CockroachDB team member)
- Tancredo Souza (first-time contributor)
- Yongyang Lai
- abhishek20123g
- gorjunov (first-time contributor)
- jieniu$ (first-time contributor)

[#46747]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/46747
[#46783]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/46783
[#46919]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/46919
[#46921]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/46921
[#47423]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/47423
[#47523]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/47523
[#48051]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48051
[#48090]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48090
[#48306]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48306
[#49284]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49284
[#49452]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49452
[#49522]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49522
[#49553]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49553
[#49666]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49666
[#49668]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49668
[#49761]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49761
[#49763]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49763
[#49770]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49770
[#49776]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49776
[#49783]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49783
[#49784]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49784
[#49788]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49788
[#49802]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49802
[#49808]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49808
[#49816]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49816
[#49818]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49818
[#49823]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49823
[#49827]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49827
[#49833]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49833
[#49836]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49836
[#49841]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49841
[#49857]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49857
[#49872]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49872
[#49875]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49875
[#49886]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49886
[#49887]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49887
[#49888]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49888
[#49892]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49892
[#49900]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49900
[#49905]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49905
[#49931]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49931
[#49948]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49948
[#49949]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49949
[#49950]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49950
[#49961]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49961
[#49967]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49967
[#49979]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49979
[#49980]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49980
[#49995]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/49995
[#50003]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50003
[#50010]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50010
[#50011]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50011
[#50016]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50016
[#50018]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50018
[#50071]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50071
[#50103]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50103
[#50110]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50110
[#50116]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50116
[#50143]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50143
[#50151]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50151
[#50153]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50153
[#50156]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50156
[#50161]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50161
[#50173]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50173
[#50185]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50185
[#50188]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50188
[#50192]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50192
[#50213]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50213
[#50245]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50245
[#50254]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50254
[#50255]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50255
[#50256]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50256
[#50257]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50257
[#50269]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50269
[#50275]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50275
[#50278]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50278
[#50280]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50280
[#50286]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50286
[#50292]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50292
[#50295]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50295
[#50297]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50297
[#50307]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50307
[#50311]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50311
[#50314]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50314
[#50320]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50320
[#50334]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50334
[#50348]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50348
[#50349]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50349
[#50351]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50351
[#50361]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50361
[#50362]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50362
[#50369]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50369
[#50371]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50371
[#50372]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50372
[#50402]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50402
[#50411]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50411
[#50417]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50417
[#50436]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50436
[#50441]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50441
[#50456]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50456
[#50457]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50457
[#50479]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50479
[#50483]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50483
[#50484]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50484
[#50492]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50492
[#50500]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50500
[#50532]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50532
[#50539]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50539
[#50546]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50546
[#50577]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50577
[#50582]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50582
[#50585]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50585
[#50589]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50589
[#50599]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50599
[#50626]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50626
[#50627]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50627
[#50633]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50633
[#50662]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50662
[#50665]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50665
[#50671]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50671
[#50674]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50674
[#50682]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50682
[#50697]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50697
[#50708]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50708
[#50722]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50722
[#50723]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50723
[#50727]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50727
[#50744]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50744
[#50759]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50759
[#50760]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50760
[#50769]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50769
[#50772]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50772
[#50773]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50773
[#50775]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50775
[#50791]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50791
[#50810]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50810
[#50815]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50815
[#50819]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50819
[#50831]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50831
[#50838]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50838
[#50845]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50845
[#50846]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50846
[#50850]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50850
[#50866]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50866
[#50898]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50898
