---
title: Technical Advisory 43870
advisory: A-43870
summary: HTTP authentication for non-Enterprise users
toc: true
affected_versions: v2.1.10-onward, v19.1.6-onward, v19.2.2
advisory_date: January 22, 2020
docs_area: releases
---

Publication date: {{ page.advisory_date }}

## Description

Following the fix for [Advisory 42567](a42567.html), CockroachDB from
versions v2.1.10, v19.1.6, and v19.2.2 onward now limit access to
privileged HTTP endpoints (privileged Admin UI pages and monitoring
APIs) to authenticated admin users. However, the SQL root user
specifically is currently not able to log in via HTTP.

## Statement

The root user is currently unable to use privileged HTTP endpoints
because root is prevented from having a password (this is a
CockroachDB feature from version v1.0 to v19.2, only lifted in v20.1) and
HTTP endpoints only support password authentication.

Without an enterprise license, the only SQL admin user is
root. Therefore, core users are unable to use these privileged HTTP
endpoints.

Starting in v19.2.5 and v20.1, no license is required any more to add
more users to the `admin` role using the
[`GRANT`](../{{site.versions["stable"]}}/grant.html) statement. Users are encouraged
to upgrade and use `GRANT`. For deployments using previous versions, a
workaround is available in the Mitigation section below.

Additionally, CockroachDB v19.2.3 and v20.1 include a way to create an
HTTP authentication cookie manually using a CLI utility: the new
command `cockroach auth-session login`. This solution will be usable
with servers/clusters running versions v2.1, v19.1 and v19.2 without
requiring a server upgrade.

Starting in v20.1, the `root` user will also be able to use a
password and log in via HTTP interactively.

This issue is tracked internally as [#43870](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/issues/43870).

## Mitigation

Affected sites can obtain a temporary evaluation license, create a
user other than root, give it a password, grant it the admin role,
then let the evaluation license expire. The admin user created in this
manner will persist beyond the license expiry.

Alternatively, additional users can be added to the `admin` group
via an [`INSERT`](../{{site.versions["stable"]}}/insert.html) statement, for example:

~~~sql
INSERT INTO system.role_members(role, member, "isAdmin") VALUES ('admin', 'someuser', false);
~~~

After the command is executed, conduct a rolling restart of the nodes to clear out the grant cache.

## Impact

All core users of CockroachDB v2.1.10, v19.1.6, and v19.2.2 without an
Enterprise license are affected.

Affected deployments are prevented from using privileged Admin UI
pages and monitoring HTTP endpoints.

Questions about any technical alert can be directed to our [support
team](https://support.cockroachlabs.com/).
