---
title: Technical Advisory 44166
advisory: A-44166
summary: <code>SHOW JOBS</code> and Jobs page can endanger cluster stability
toc: true
affected_versions: v19.2.0-v19.2.2
advisory_date: 2020-02-12
docs_area: releases
---

Publication date: {{ page.advisory_date | date: "%B %e, %Y" }}

## Description

When running `SHOW JOBS` or viewing the Jobs page in the Admin UI, high memory usage can be incurred on a node to the point it could crash.

## Statement

`SHOW JOBS` and the Jobs page in the Admin UI internally load all the job descriptions from the cluster in RAM before displaying them.

Under reasonable production settings, a single backup job payload may exceed 5MB in size. Considering an hourly backup and default property for `jobs.retention_time` set to 336h, a single use of `SHOW JOBS` or a single user of the Jobs page in the Admin UI can incur ~1.7GB of memory utilization. This allocation is then multiplied by the number of concurrent accesses to the jobs table.

Starting in CockroachDB v19.2.3, new jobs payloads are reduced in size. A later version will also avoid loading old job entries in memory when viewing recent jobs.

This public issue is tracked as [#44166](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/issues/44166).


## Mitigation

It is possible to reduce the number of job entries overall by setting the `jobs.retention_time` cluster setting to a value closer to 48h or 24h.

For example:

~~~sql
SET CLUSTER SETTING jobs.retention_time='48:00:00'.
~~~

Additionally, if the nodes are observed to crash due to excessive memory usage, it may be necessary to truncate the job history. This can be achieved, for example, with:

~~~sql
DELETE from system.jobs
WHERE status = 'succeeded'
  AND created < (now() - '2 days'::interval);
~~~

## Impact

All deployments running CockroachDB v19.2.0 to v19.2.2 are affected.

Questions about any technical alert can be directed to our [support team](https://support.cockroachlabs.com/).
