---
title: Technical Advisory 79281
advisory: A-79281
summary: Importing duplicate keys can cause violations of UNIQUE constraints
toc: true
affected_versions: v21.2.0-v21.2.7, 22.1.0-alpha.1-22.1.0-alpha.5, v22.1.0-beta.1.
advisory_date: April 12, 2022
docs_area: releases
---

Publication date: {{ page.advisory_date }}

## Description

In a multi-region database, calling [`IMPORT INTO`](../v22.1/import-into.html) on a [`REGIONAL BY ROW` table](../v22.1/regional-tables.html) could violate [`UNIQUE`](../v22.1/unique.html) constraints, including [`PRIMARY KEY`](../v22.1/primary-key.html) constraints, resulting in duplicate keys.

Affected versions: v21.2.0-v21.2.7

## Statement

This is resolved in CockroachDB by [PR 79293](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/79293).
The fix was applied in the maintenance release of [CockroachDB v21.2.8](../releases/v21.2.html#v21-2-8).

This public issue is tracked by [79281](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/issues/79281).

## Mitigation

Users of CockroachDB v21.2.0 to v21.2.7 who have used [`IMPORT INTO`](../v22.1/import-into.html) must audit their [`REGIONAL BY ROW`](../v22.1/regional-tables.html) tables with `UNIQUE` constraints to ensure these tables do not contain `UNIQUE` constraint violations.

Users should also upgrade to v21.2.8 or a later version.

### v21.2.6 or later

Users of CockroachDB v21.2.6 and later have access to the following [built-in functions](../v22.1/functions-and-operators.html), which can be used to easily validate `UNIQUE` constraints:

- `SELECT crdb_internal.revalidate_unique_constraints_in_all_tables();`
- `SELECT crdb_internal.revalidate_unique_constraints_in_table('table_name');`
- `SELECT crdb_internal.revalidate_unique_constraint('table_name', 'constraint_name');`

If any constraint fails validation, the functions will return an error with a hint about which data caused the constraint violation. These violations can then be resolved manually by updating or deleting the rows in violation.

### Prior to v21.2.6

Users of CockroachDB releases prior to v21.2.6 may audit the table for duplicate keys by running a query of the following form, for each [`UNIQUE`](../v22.1/unique.html) constraint that may have been affected:

~~~sql
SELECT * FROM t GROUP BY unique_col1 [, unique_col2 ...] HAVING count(*) > 1;
~~~

If a query returns any results, this indicates that the table contains `UNIQUE` constraint violations. To fix the violations, update all but one of the duplicate keys with a different value.

## Impact

[`REGIONAL BY ROW`](../v22.1/regional-tables.html) tables spanning multiple regions could contain non-unique data in unique columns if [`IMPORT INTO`](../v22.1/import-into.html) was used to import data with duplicate keys. Versions affected include v21.2.0 to v21.2.7, v22.1.0-alpha.1 to v22.1.0-alpha.5, and v22.1.0-beta.1.

Please reach out to the [support team](https://support.cockroachlabs.com/) for more information.
