---
title: Technical Advisory 88042
advisory: A-88042
summary: A <code>RESTORE</code> of an incremental backup may include rows that should not be restored, in a narrow set of circumstances relating to an ongoing <code>IMPORT INTO</code> job.
toc: true
affected_versions: v22.1.0 to v22.1.8 and v21.2.0 to v21.2.16

advisory_date: 2022-10-24
docs_area: releases
---

Publication date: {{ page.advisory_date | date: "%B %e, %Y" }}

## Description

In CockroachDB [v22.1.0](../releases/v22.1.html#v22-1-0) to [v22.1.8](../releases/v22.1.html#v22-1-8) and [v21.2.0](../releases/v21.2.html#v21-2-0) to [v21.2.16](../releases/v21.2.html#v21-2-16), a [`RESTORE`](../{{site.versions["stable"]}}/restore.html) of an incremental backup may include rows that should not be restored, in a narrow set of circumstances relating to an ongoing [`IMPORT INTO`](../{{site.versions["stable"]}}/import-into.html) job. This has been fixed in CockroachDB patch versions v22.1.9 and v21.2.17, available in [Releases](/docs/releases/).

This issue primarily affects incremental backups taken after an `IMPORT INTO` operation is reverted. For this issue to occur, the following series of conditions need to occur:

1. First, a table must be backed up, typically as part of a full-cluster backup, while it is offline and being written to by an ongoing `IMPORT INTO` job. Rows which are being written to the table by the in-progress `IMPORT INTO` job are included in this backup.
1. Next, that `IMPORT INTO` job must fail or be canceled. This failure or cancellation triggers the roll-back process, which reverts rows which it had written, and then brings the table back online.
1. After the `IMPORT INTO` rollback completes and the table is back online, an incremental backup must be taken of the table. This incremental backup is appended to the original backup that was taken while the table was offline.
1. When this incremental backup is restored using an affected CockroachDB version, rows which were initially written by the `IMPORT` and backed up, but then later reverted when the `IMPORT INTO` was canceled before the incremental backup, will incorrectly appear in the restored table.

If a backup chain starts from a full backup subsequent to the `IMPORT INTO` job cancellation, it is unaffected.

The technical details can be found in the following GitHub issues:

- [#88042](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/issues/88042)
- [#88043](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/issues/88043)


## Statement

This is resolved in CockroachDB by [#87312](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/87312).

The fix has been applied to the maintenance release of CockroachDB [v22.1.9](../releases/v22.1.html#v22-1-9).

This public issue is tracked by [#87305](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/issues/87305).

## Mitigation

Users of CockroachDB [v22.1.0](../releases/v22.1.html#v22-1-0) to [v22.1.8](../releases/v22.1.html#v22-1-8) are encouraged to upgrade to [v22.1.9](../releases/v22.1.html#v22-1-9) or a later version.

Users of CockroachDB [v21.2.0](../releases/v22.1.html#v21-2-0) to [v21.2.16](../releases/v22.1.html#v21-2-16) are encouraged to upgrade to [v21.2.17](../releases/v22.1.html#v21-2-17) or a later version.

If a `RESTORE` must be run using prior versions, Cockroach Labs recommends that where possible, you restore only to full backups. If you must restore to an incremental backup taken on an affected version, restore only tables on which `IMPORT INTO` did not run or succeeded.

The best mitigation, however, is to upgrade to v22.1.9 or v21.2.17 as soon as possible.

## Impact

A `RESTORE` of an incremental backup may include rows that should not be restored, in a narrow set of circumstances relating to an ongoing `IMPORT INTO` job. Versions affected include {{ page.affected_versions }}.

Please reach out to the [support team](https://support.cockroachlabs.com/) if more information or assistance is needed.
