Feature | Description
--------+-------------------------
[Geo-Partitioning](topology-geo-partitioned-replicas.html) | This feature gives you row-level control of how and where your data is stored to dramatically reduce read and write latencies and assist in meeting regulatory requirements in multi-region deployments.
[Follower Reads](follower-reads.html) | This feature reduces read latency in multi-region deployments by using the closest replica at the expense of reading slightly historical data.
[`BACKUP`](backup.html) | This feature creates backups of your cluster's schema and data that are consistent as of a given timestamp, stored on a service such as AWS S3, Google Cloud Storage, NFS, or HTTP storage.<br><br>[Incremental backups](take-full-and-incremental-backups.html), [backups with revision history](take-backups-with-revision-history-and-restore-from-a-point-in-time.html), [locality-aware backups](take-and-restore-locality-aware-backups.html), and [encrypted backups](take-and-restore-encrypted-backups.html) require an enterprise license. [Full backups](take-full-and-incremental-backups.html) do not require an enterprise license.
[Changefeeds into a Configurable Sink](create-changefeed.html) | This feature targets an allowlist of tables. For every change, it emits a record to a configurable sink, either Apache Kafka or a cloud-storage sink, for downstream processing such as reporting, caching, or full-text indexing.
[Node Map](enable-node-map.html) | This feature visualizes the geographical configuration of a cluster by plotting node localities on a world map.
[Locality-Aware Index Selection](cost-based-optimizer.html#preferring-the-nearest-index) | Given [multiple identical indexes](topology-duplicate-indexes.html) that have different locality constraints using [replication zones](configure-replication-zones.html), the cost-based optimizer will prefer the index that is closest to the gateway node that is planning the query. In multi-region deployments, this can lead to performance improvements due to improved data locality and reduced network traffic.
[Encryption at Rest](encryption.html#encryption-at-rest-enterprise) | Supplementing CockroachDB's encryption in flight capabilities, this feature provides transparent encryption of a node's data on the local disk. It allows encryption of all files on disk using AES in counter mode, with all key sizes allowed.
[GSSAPI with Kerberos Authentication](gssapi_authentication.html) | CockroachDB supports the Generic Security Services API (GSSAPI) with Kerberos authentication, which lets you use an external enterprise directory system that supports Kerberos, such as Active Directory.
