_includes/v21.1/misc/logging-flags.md, before:

Flag | Description
-----|------------
`--log` | <span class="version-tag">New in v21.1:</span> Configure logging parameters by specifying a YAML payload. For details, see [Configure logs](configure-logs.html#flag). If a YAML configuration is not specified, the [default configuration](configure-logs.html#default-logging-configuration) is used.<br/><br/>`--log-config-file` can also be used.<br/><br/>**Note:** The deprecated logging flags below cannot be combined with `--log`, and can be defined instead in the YAML payload.
`--log-config-file` | <span class="version-tag">New in v21.1:</span> Configure logging parameters by specifying a path to a YAML file. For details, see [Configure logs](configure-logs.html#flag). If a YAML configuration is not specified, the [default configuration](configure-logs.html#default-logging-configuration) is used.<br/><br/>`--log` can also be used.<br/><br/>**Note:** The deprecated logging flags below cannot be combined with `--log-config-file`, and can be defined instead in the YAML payload.
`--log-dir` | **Deprecated.** To enable logging to files and write logs to the specified directory, use [`--log`](configure-logs.html#flag) and set `dir` in the YAML configuration. <br/><br/>Setting `--log-dir` to a blank directory (`--log-dir=""`) disables logging to files.
`--log-group-max-size` | **Deprecated.** This is now configured with [`--log`](configure-logs.html#flag) or [`--log-config-file`](configure-logs.html#flag) and a YAML payload. After the logging group (i.e., `cockroach`, `cockroach-sql-audit`, `cockroach-auth`, `cockroach-sql-exec`, `cockroach-pebble`) reaches the specified size, delete the oldest log file. The flag's argument takes standard file sizes, such as `--log-group-max-size=1GiB`.<br/><br/>**Default**: 100MiB
`--log-file-max-size` | **Deprecated.** This is now configured with [`--log`](configure-logs.html#flag) or [`--log-config-file`](configure-logs.html#flag) and a YAML payload. After logs reach the specified size, begin writing logs to a new file. The flag's argument takes standard file sizes, such as `--log-file-max-size=2MiB`.<br/><br/>**Default**: 10MiB
`--log-file-verbosity` | **Deprecated.** This is now configured with [`--log`](configure-logs.html#flag) or [`--log-config-file`](configure-logs.html#flag) and a YAML payload. Only writes messages to log files if they are at or above the specified [severity level](logging.html#logging-levels-severities), such as `--log-file-verbosity=WARNING`. **Requires** logging to files.<br/><br/>**Default**: `INFO`
`--logtostderr` | **Deprecated.** This is now configured with [`--log`](configure-logs.html#flag) or [`--log-config-file`](configure-logs.html#flag) and a YAML payload. Enable logging to `stderr` for messages at or above the specified [severity level](logging.html#logging-levels-severities), such as `--logtostderr=ERROR`<br/><br/>If you use this flag without specifying the severity level (e.g., `cockroach start --logtostderr`), it prints messages of *all* severities to `stderr`.<br/><br/>Setting `--logtostderr=NONE` disables logging to `stderr`.
`--no-color` | Do not colorize `stderr`. Possible values: `true` or `false`.<br/><br/>When set to `false`, messages logged to `stderr` are colorized based on [severity level](logging.html#logging-levels-severities). <br><br>**Default:** `false`
`--sql-audit-dir` | **Deprecated.** This is now configured with [`--log`](configure-logs.html#flag) or [`--log-config-file`](configure-logs.html#flag) and a YAML payload. If non-empty, output the `SENSITIVE_ACCESS` [logging channel](logging-overview.html#logging-channels) to this directory.<br><br>Note that enabling `SENSITIVE_ACCESS` logs can negatively impact performance. As a result, we recommend using the `SENSITIVE_ACCESS` channel for security purposes only. For more information, see [Logging use cases](logging-use-cases.html#security-and-audit-monitoring).

Commit message:

DOC-3423: Standardize "New in vXX.Y" version callouts (#13962)
Fixes DOC-3423

_includes/v21.1/misc/logging-flags.md, after:

Flag | Description
-----|------------
`--log` | {% include_cached new-in.html version="v21.1" %} Configure logging parameters by specifying a YAML payload. For details, see [Configure logs](configure-logs.html#flag). If a YAML configuration is not specified, the [default configuration](configure-logs.html#default-logging-configuration) is used.<br/><br/>`--log-config-file` can also be used.<br/><br/>**Note:** The deprecated logging flags below cannot be combined with `--log`, and can be defined instead in the YAML payload.
`--log-config-file` | {% include_cached new-in.html version="v21.1" %} Configure logging parameters by specifying a path to a YAML file. For details, see [Configure logs](configure-logs.html#flag). If a YAML configuration is not specified, the [default configuration](configure-logs.html#default-logging-configuration) is used.<br/><br/>`--log` can also be used.<br/><br/>**Note:** The deprecated logging flags below cannot be combined with `--log-config-file`, and can be defined instead in the YAML payload.
`--log-dir` | **Deprecated.** To enable logging to files and write logs to the specified directory, use [`--log`](configure-logs.html#flag) and set `dir` in the YAML configuration. <br/><br/>Setting `--log-dir` to a blank directory (`--log-dir=""`) disables logging to files.
`--log-group-max-size` | **Deprecated.** This is now configured with [`--log`](configure-logs.html#flag) or [`--log-config-file`](configure-logs.html#flag) and a YAML payload. After the logging group (i.e., `cockroach`, `cockroach-sql-audit`, `cockroach-auth`, `cockroach-sql-exec`, `cockroach-pebble`) reaches the specified size, delete the oldest log file. The flag's argument takes standard file sizes, such as `--log-group-max-size=1GiB`.<br/><br/>**Default**: 100MiB
`--log-file-max-size` | **Deprecated.** This is now configured with [`--log`](configure-logs.html#flag) or [`--log-config-file`](configure-logs.html#flag) and a YAML payload. After logs reach the specified size, begin writing logs to a new file. The flag's argument takes standard file sizes, such as `--log-file-max-size=2MiB`.<br/><br/>**Default**: 10MiB
`--log-file-verbosity` | **Deprecated.** This is now configured with [`--log`](configure-logs.html#flag) or [`--log-config-file`](configure-logs.html#flag) and a YAML payload. Only writes messages to log files if they are at or above the specified [severity level](logging.html#logging-levels-severities), such as `--log-file-verbosity=WARNING`. **Requires** logging to files.<br/><br/>**Default**: `INFO`
`--logtostderr` | **Deprecated.** This is now configured with [`--log`](configure-logs.html#flag) or [`--log-config-file`](configure-logs.html#flag) and a YAML payload. Enable logging to `stderr` for messages at or above the specified [severity level](logging.html#logging-levels-severities), such as `--logtostderr=ERROR`<br/><br/>If you use this flag without specifying the severity level (e.g., `cockroach start --logtostderr`), it prints messages of *all* severities to `stderr`.<br/><br/>Setting `--logtostderr=NONE` disables logging to `stderr`.
`--no-color` | Do not colorize `stderr`. Possible values: `true` or `false`.<br/><br/>When set to `false`, messages logged to `stderr` are colorized based on [severity level](logging.html#logging-levels-severities). <br><br>**Default:** `false`
`--sql-audit-dir` | **Deprecated.** This is now configured with [`--log`](configure-logs.html#flag) or [`--log-config-file`](configure-logs.html#flag) and a YAML payload. If non-empty, output the `SENSITIVE_ACCESS` [logging channel](logging-overview.html#logging-channels) to this directory.<br><br>Note that enabling `SENSITIVE_ACCESS` logs can negatively impact performance. As a result, we recommend using the `SENSITIVE_ACCESS` channel for security purposes only. For more information, see [Logging use cases](logging-use-cases.html#security-and-audit-monitoring).
