_includes/v22.1/orchestration/start-cockroachdb-secure.md, before:

### Configure the cluster

1. Download and modify our [StatefulSet configuration](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/blob/master/cloud/kubernetes/bring-your-own-certs/cockroachdb-statefulset.yaml):

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    $ curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/master/cloud/kubernetes/bring-your-own-certs/cockroachdb-statefulset.yaml
    ~~~

1. Update `secretName` with the name of the corresponding node secret.

    The secret names depend on your method for generating secrets. For example, if you follow the below [steps using `cockroach cert`](#create-certificates), use this secret name:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ yaml
    secret:
      secretName: cockroachdb.node
    ~~~

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
By default, this manifest specifies CPU and memory resources that are appropriate for the virtual machines used in this deployment example. On a production cluster, you should substitute values that are appropriate for your machines and workload. For details on configuring your deployment, see [Configure the Cluster](configure-cockroachdb-kubernetes.html?filters=manual).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

### Create certificates

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
The StatefulSet configuration sets all CockroachDB nodes to log to `stderr`, so if you ever need access to a pod/node's logs to troubleshoot, use `kubectl logs <podname>` rather than checking the log on the persistent volume.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/orchestration/kubernetes-cockroach-cert.md %}

### Initialize the cluster

1. Use the config file you downloaded to create the StatefulSet that automatically creates 3 pods, each running a CockroachDB node:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    $ kubectl create -f cockroachdb-statefulset.yaml
    ~~~

    ~~~
    serviceaccount/cockroachdb created
    role.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/cockroachdb created
    rolebinding.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/cockroachdb created
    service/cockroachdb-public created
    service/cockroachdb created
    poddisruptionbudget.policy/cockroachdb-budget created
    statefulset.apps/cockroachdb created
    ~~~

1. Initialize the CockroachDB cluster:

    1. Confirm that three pods are `Running` successfully. Note that they will not be considered `Ready` until after the cluster has been initialized:

        {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
        ~~~ shell
        $ kubectl get pods
        ~~~

        ~~~
        NAME            READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
        cockroachdb-0   0/1       Running   0          2m
        cockroachdb-1   0/1       Running   0          2m
        cockroachdb-2   0/1       Running   0          2m
        ~~~

    1. Confirm that the persistent volumes and corresponding claims were created successfully for all three pods:

        {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
        ~~~ shell
        $ kubectl get pv
        ~~~

        ~~~
        NAME                                       CAPACITY   ACCESS MODES   RECLAIM POLICY   STATUS   CLAIM                           STORAGECLASS   REASON   AGE
        pvc-9e435563-fb2e-11e9-a65c-42010a8e0fca   100Gi      RWO            Delete           Bound    default/datadir-cockroachdb-0   standard                51m
        pvc-9e47d820-fb2e-11e9-a65c-42010a8e0fca   100Gi      RWO            Delete           Bound    default/datadir-cockroachdb-1   standard                51m
        pvc-9e4f57f0-fb2e-11e9-a65c-42010a8e0fca   100Gi      RWO            Delete           Bound    default/datadir-cockroachdb-2   standard                51m
        ~~~

    1. Run `cockroach init` on one of the pods to complete the node startup process and have them join together as a cluster:

        {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
        ~~~ shell
        $ kubectl exec -it cockroachdb-0 \
        -- /cockroach/cockroach init \
        --certs-dir=/cockroach/cockroach-certs
        ~~~

        ~~~
        Cluster successfully initialized
        ~~~

    1. Confirm that cluster initialization has completed successfully. The job should be considered successful and the Kubernetes pods should soon be considered `Ready`:

        {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
        ~~~ shell
        $ kubectl get pods
        ~~~

        ~~~
        NAME            READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
        cockroachdb-0   1/1       Running   0          3m
        cockroachdb-1   1/1       Running   0          3m
        cockroachdb-2   1/1       Running   0          3m
        ~~~

Commit message:

[DOC-296] Add info about deploying manual StatefulSet into a different namespace

_includes/v22.1/orchestration/start-cockroachdb-secure.md, after:

### Configure the cluster

1. Download and modify our [StatefulSet configuration](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/blob/master/cloud/kubernetes/bring-your-own-certs/cockroachdb-statefulset.yaml):

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    $ curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/master/cloud/kubernetes/bring-your-own-certs/cockroachdb-statefulset.yaml
    ~~~

1. Update `secretName` with the name of the corresponding node secret.

    The secret names depend on your method for generating secrets. For example, if you follow the below [steps using `cockroach cert`](#create-certificates), use this secret name:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ yaml
    secret:
      secretName: cockroachdb.node
    ~~~

1. The StatefulSet configuration deploys CockroachDB into the `default` namespace. To use a different namespace, search for `kind: RoleBinding` and change its `subjects.namespace` to the name of the namespace. Otherwise, a `failed to read secrets` error occurs when you attempt to follow the steps in [Initialize the cluster](#initialize-the-cluster).

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
By default, this manifest specifies CPU and memory resources that are appropriate for the virtual machines used in this deployment example. On a production cluster, you should substitute values that are appropriate for your machines and workload. For details on configuring your deployment, see [Configure the Cluster](configure-cockroachdb-kubernetes.html?filters=manual).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

### Create certificates

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
The StatefulSet configuration sets all CockroachDB nodes to log to `stderr`, so if you ever need access to a pod/node's logs to troubleshoot, use `kubectl logs <podname>` rather than checking the log on the persistent volume.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/orchestration/kubernetes-cockroach-cert.md %}

### Initialize the cluster

1. Use the config file you downloaded to create the StatefulSet that automatically creates 3 pods, each running a CockroachDB node:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    $ kubectl create -f cockroachdb-statefulset.yaml
    ~~~

    ~~~
    serviceaccount/cockroachdb created
    role.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/cockroachdb created
    rolebinding.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/cockroachdb created
    service/cockroachdb-public created
    service/cockroachdb created
    poddisruptionbudget.policy/cockroachdb-budget created
    statefulset.apps/cockroachdb created
    ~~~

1. Initialize the CockroachDB cluster:

    1. Confirm that three pods are `Running` successfully. Note that they will not be considered `Ready` until after the cluster has been initialized:

        {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
        ~~~ shell
        $ kubectl get pods
        ~~~

        ~~~
        NAME            READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
        cockroachdb-0   0/1       Running   0          2m
        cockroachdb-1   0/1       Running   0          2m
        cockroachdb-2   0/1       Running   0          2m
        ~~~

    1. Confirm that the persistent volumes and corresponding claims were created successfully for all three pods:

        {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
        ~~~ shell
        $ kubectl get pv
        ~~~

        ~~~
        NAME                                       CAPACITY   ACCESS MODES   RECLAIM POLICY   STATUS   CLAIM                           STORAGECLASS   REASON   AGE
        pvc-9e435563-fb2e-11e9-a65c-42010a8e0fca   100Gi      RWO            Delete           Bound    default/datadir-cockroachdb-0   standard                51m
        pvc-9e47d820-fb2e-11e9-a65c-42010a8e0fca   100Gi      RWO            Delete           Bound    default/datadir-cockroachdb-1   standard                51m
        pvc-9e4f57f0-fb2e-11e9-a65c-42010a8e0fca   100Gi      RWO            Delete           Bound    default/datadir-cockroachdb-2   standard                51m
        ~~~

    1. Run `cockroach init` on one of the pods to complete the node startup process and have them join together as a cluster:

        {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
        ~~~ shell
        $ kubectl exec -it cockroachdb-0 \
        -- /cockroach/cockroach init \
        --certs-dir=/cockroach/cockroach-certs
        ~~~

        ~~~
        Cluster successfully initialized
        ~~~

    1. Confirm that cluster initialization has completed successfully. The job should be considered successful and the Kubernetes pods should soon be considered `Ready`:

        {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
        ~~~ shell
        $ kubectl get pods
        ~~~

        ~~~
        NAME            READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
        cockroachdb-0   1/1       Running   0          3m
        cockroachdb-1   1/1       Running   0          3m
        cockroachdb-2   1/1       Running   0          3m
        ~~~
