## v24.3.0

Release Date: November 18, 2024

With the release of CockroachDB v24.3, we've added new capabilities to help you migrate, build, and operate more efficiently. Refer to our summary of the most significant user-facing changes under [Feature Highlights](#v24-3-0-feature-highlights).

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v24-3-0-feature-highlights">Feature highlights</h3>

This section summarizes the most significant user-facing changes in v24.3.0 and other features recently made available to CockroachDB users across versions. For a complete list of features and changes in v24.3, including bug fixes and performance improvements, refer to the [release notes]({% link releases/index.md %}#testing-releases) for previous v24.3 testing releases. You can also search the docs for sections labeled [New in v24.3](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/search?query=new+in+v24.3).

- **Feature categories**
    - [CockroachDB Licensing](#v24-3-0-licensing)
    - [CockroachDB Cloud](#v24-3-0-cloud)
    - [Change Data Capture](#v24-3-0-change-data-capture)
    - [Disaster Recovery](#v24-3-0-disaster-recovery)
    - [SQL](#v24-3-0-sql)
    - [Security](#v24-3-0-security)
    - [Observability](#v24-3-0-observability)

- **Additional information**
    - [Backward-incompatible changes](#v24-3-0-backward-incompatible-changes)
    - [Key cluster setting changes](#v24-3-0-key-cluster-setting-changes)
    - [Deprecations] (#v24-3-0-deprecations)
    - [Known limitations](#v24-3-0-known-limitations)
    - [Additional resources](#v24-3-0-additional-resources)


<div id="feature-highlights">

<h4 id="v24-3-0-licensing">CockroachDB Licensing</h4>

{% include releases/v24.3/feature-highlights-licensing.html %}

<h4 id="v24-3-0-cloud">CockroachDB Cloud</h4>

{% include releases/v24.3/feature-highlights-cloud.html %}

<h4 id="v24-3-0-change-data-capture">Change Data Capture</h4>

{% include releases/v24.3/feature-highlights-change-data-capture.html %}

<h4 id="v24-3-0-disaster-recovery">Disaster Recovery</h4>

{% include releases/v24.3/feature-highlights-disaster-recovery.html %}

<h4 id="v24-3-0-sql">SQL</h4>

{% include releases/v24.3/feature-highlights-sql.html %}

<h4 id="v24-3-0-security">Security</h4>

{% include releases/v24.3/feature-highlights-security.html %}

<h4 id="v24-3-0-observability">Observability</h4>

{% include releases/v24.3/feature-highlights-observability.html %}

{% include releases/v24.3/feature-detail-key.html %}

</div>

<a name="v24-3-0-backward-incompatible-changes"></a>

<h4 id="v24-3-0-backward-incompatible-changes">Backward-incompatible changes</h4>

{% include releases/v24.3/backward-incompatible.md %}

<a name="features-that-require-upgrade-finalization"></a>

<h4 id="features-that-require-upgrade-finalization">Features that Require Upgrade Finalization</h4>

{% include releases/v24.3/upgrade-finalization.md %}

<a name="v24-3-0-cluster-settings"></a>

<h4 id="v24-3-0-key-cluster-setting-changes">Key Cluster Setting Changes</h4>

Changes to [cluster settings]({% link v24.3/cluster-settings.md %}) should be reviewed prior to upgrading. New default cluster setting values will be used unless you have manually set a value for a setting. This can be confirmed by running the SQL statement `SELECT * FROM system.settings` to view the non-default settings.

- [Settings added](#v24-3-0-settings-added)
- [Settings with changed defaults](#v24-3-0-settings-with-changed-defaults)
- [Settings with changed visibility](#v24-3-0-settings-with-changed-visibility)
- [Additional setting changes](#v24-3-0-additional-cluster-setting-changes)

<h5 id="v24-3-0-settings-added">Settings added</h5>

- `goschedstats.always_use_short_sample_period.enabled`: when set to `true`, helps to prevent unnecessary queueing due to CPU [admission control]({% link v24.3/admission-control.md %}) by forcing `1ms` sampling of runnable queue lengths. The default value is `false`. [#133585][#133585]

- `kv.range.range_size_hard_cap`: allows you to limit how large a [range]({% link v24.3/architecture/overview.md %}#architecture-range) can grow before [backpressure]({% link v24.3/common-errors.md %}#split-failed-while-applying-backpressure-are-rows-updated-in-a-tight-loop) is applied. This can help to mitigate against a situation where a range cannot be split, such as when a range is comprised of a single key due to an issue with the schema or workload pattern, or a bug in client application code. The default is `8 GiB`, 16 times the default maximum range size. If you have changed the maximum range size, you may need to adjust this cluster setting or reduce the range size. [#129450][#129450]

- `kvadmission.flow_controller.token_reset_epoch`: can be used to refill replication [admission control]({% link v24.3/admission-control.md %}) v2 tokens. This setting is marked as `reserved`, as it is not supported for tuning, by default. Use it only after consultation with your account team. [#133294][#133294]

- `kvadmission.store.snapshot_ingest_bandwidth_control.enabled`: enables a new [Admission Control]({% link v24.3/admission-control.md %}) integration for pacing snapshot ingest traffic based on disk bandwidth. It requires provisioned bandwidth to be set for the store, or the cluster through the setting `kvadmission.store.provisioned_bandwidth`, for it to take effect. [#131243][#131243]

- Settings have been added which control the refresh behavior for the cached data in the Databases page of the [DB Console]({% link v24.3/ui-overview.md %}):
    - `obs.tablemetadatacache.data_valid_duration`: the duration for which the data in `system.table_metadata` is considered valid before a cache reset will occur. Default: 20 minutes.
    - `obs.tablemetadatacache.automatic_updates.enabled`: whether to automatically update the cache according the validity interval. Default: `false`.
  
    [#130198][#130198]

- `server.jwt_authentication.client.timeout`: the HTTP client timeout for external calls made during [JWT authentication]({% link v24.3/sso-sql.md %}). [#127145][#127145]

- Partial [statistics]({% link v24.3/cost-based-optimizer.md %}#table-statistics) can now be automatically collected at the extremes of indexes when a certain fraction and minimum number of rows are stale (by default 5% and 100%, respectively). These can be configured with new [table storage parameters]({% link v24.3/alter-table.md %}#set-and-reset-storage-parameters) and [cluster settings]({% link v24.3/cluster-settings.md %}):
    - `sql.stats.automatic_partial_collection.enabled` (table parameter `sql_stats_automatic_partial_collection_enabled`) - both default to `false`.
    - `sql.stats.automatic_partial_collection.min_stale_rows` (table parameter `sql_stats_automatic_partial_collection_min_stale_rows`) - both default to `100`.
    - `sql.stats.automatic_partial_collection.fraction_stale_rows` (table parameter `sql_stats_automatic_partial_collection_fraction_stale_rows`) - both default to `0.05`.

    [#93067][#93067]

- `sql.stats.histogram_buckets.include_most_common_values.enabled`: controls whether common values are included in [histogram collection]({% link v24.3/cost-based-optimizer.md %}#control-histogram-collection) for use by the [optimizer]({% link v24.3/cost-based-optimizer.md %}). When enabled, histogram buckets will represent the most common sampled values as upper bounds. [#129378][#129378]

- `sql.stats.histogram_buckets.max_fraction_most_common_values`: controls the fraction of buckets that can be adjusted to include common values. Defaults to `0.1`. [#129378][#129378]

- `sql.txn.repeatable_read_isolation.enabled`: defaults to `false`. When set to `true`, the following statements configure transactions to run under `REPEATABLE READ` isolation, rather than being automatically interpreted as [`SERIALIZABLE`]({% link v24.3/demo-serializable.md %}):
  - `BEGIN TRANSACTION ISOLATION LEVEL REPEATABLE READ`
  - `SET TRANSACTION ISOLATION LEVEL REPEATABLE READ`
  - `SET default_transaction_isolation = 'repeatable read'`
  - `SET SESSION CHARACTERISTICS AS TRANSACTION ISOLATION LEVEL REPEATABLE READ`

<h5 id="v24-3-0-settings-with-changed-defaults">Settings with changed defaults</h5>

- The default for `sql.defaults.large_full_scan_rows` is now `0`. If a user is using session var values inherited from these settings, when `sql.defaults.disallow_full_table_scans.enabled` is set to `true`: all full table scans are now disallowed by default, even full scans on very small tables, but if `sql.defaults.large_full_scan_rows` is set to a number greater than `0`, full scans are allowed if they are estimated to read fewer than that number of rows. 
  - **Note:** All `sql.defaults` settings are maintained for backward compatibility. We recommend using `ALTER ROLE`, instead, to set the corresponding session vars for users (in this case, `large_full_scan_rows` and `disallow_full_table_scans`). For more information, see the note on the [Cluster Settings table]({% link v24.3/cluster-settings.md %}#settings).

- Increased the per-vCPU concurrency limits for KV operations:
    - The default for `kv.dist_sender.concurrency_limit` (reserved) has changed from `64` per vCPU to `384` per vCPU. (In v24.3, it is possible to estimate the current concurrency level using the new metric `distsender.batches.async.in_progress`.)
    - The default for `kv.streamer.concurrency_limit` (reserved) has changed from `8` per vCPU to `96` per vCPU.
    - These are `reserved` settings, not intended for tuning by customers.
    - When running `SHOW CLUSTER SETTING`, the displayed setting values will depend on the node's number of vCPUs.
    - Contact Support if the number of `distsender.batches.async.throttled` requests is  persistently greater than zero.

    [#131226][#131226]

- The default for `server.oidc_authentication.client.timeout`, which sets the client timeout for external calls made during OIDC authentication, has changed from `30s` to `15s`.

<h5 id="v24-3-0-settings-with-changed-visibility">Settings with changed visibility</h5>

The following settings are now marked `public` after previously being `reserved`. Reserved settings are not documented and their tuning by customers is not supported.

- Cluster settings for configuring [rate limiting for traffic to cloud storage]({% link v24.3/backup.md %}#cluster-settings-for-cloud-storage) are now public.
  - These settings have the prefix `cloudstorage` followed by:
      1. a provider or protocol (`azure`, `gs`, `s3`, `http`, `nodelocal`, `userfile`, or `nullsink`)
      1. `read` or `write`
      1. `node_burst_limit` or `node_rate_limit`
  - For example, `cloudstorage.s3.write.node_burst_limit`. [#127207][#127207]

- JWT authentication  have been made `public`. [#128170][#128170]
    - `server.jwt_authentication.audience`
    - `server.jwt_authentication.claim`
    - `server.jwt_authentication.enabled`
    - `server.jwt_authentication.issuers.custom_ca`
    - `server.jwt_authentication.jwks`
    - `server.jwt_authentication.jwks_auto_fetch.enabled`

- Settings with the prefix `server.ldap_authentication` have been made `public` with the Preview release of LDAP support: 
  - `server.ldap_authentication.client.tls_certificate`
  - `server.ldap_authentication.client.tls_key`
  - `server.ldap_authentication.domain.custom_ca`

<h5 id="v24-3-0-additional-cluster-setting-changes">Additional cluster setting changes</h5>

- The setting `server.host_based_authentication.configuration` now supports LDAP configuration, and its value is now redacted for non-admin users when the `server.redact_sensitive_settings.enabled` is set to `true`. [#131150][#131150]

- The settings [`enterprise.license`]({% link v24.3/cluster-settings.md %}#setting-enterprise-license) and [`diagnostics.reporting.enabled`]({% link v24.3/cluster-settings.md %}#setting-diagnostics-reporting-enabled) now have additional validation. To disable diagnostics reporting, the cluster must also have a license that is not an [{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} Trial or {{ site.data.products.enterprise }} Free license]({% link v24.3/licensing-faqs.md %}#types-of-licenses). Additionally, to set one of these licenses, the cluster must already be submitting diagnostics information. [#131097][#131097] [#132257][#132257]

- `sql.defaults.vectorize` now supports the value `1` (in addition to `0` and `2`) to indicate `on`, to address a bug that could cause new connections to fail after an upgrade with a message referencing an `invalid value for parameter "vectorize": "unknown(1)"`. [#133371][#133371]

- The description of the setting [`changefeed.sink_io_workers`]({% link v24.3/cluster-settings.md %}#setting-changefeed-sink-io-workers) has been updated to reflect all of the [sinks]({% link v24.3/changefeed-sinks.md %}) that support the setting: the batching versions of webhook, pubsub, and kafka sinks that are enabled by `changefeed.new_<sink type>_sink_enabled`. [#129946][#129946]

<a name="v24-3-0-deprecations"></a>

<h4 id="v24-3-0-deprecations">Deprecations</h4>

{% include releases/v24.3/deprecations.md %}

<h4 id="v24-3-0-known-limitations">Known limitations</h4>

For information about new and unresolved limitations in CockroachDB v24.3, with suggested workarounds where applicable, refer to [Known Limitations]({% link v24.3/known-limitations.md %}).

<h4 id="v24-3-0-additional-resources">Additional resources</h4>

Resource             | Topic                                      | Description
---------------------+--------------------------------------------+-------------
Cockroach University | [Introduction to Distributed SQL and CockroachDB](https://university.cockroachlabs.com/courses/course-v1:crl+intro-to-distributed-sql-and-cockroachdb+self-paced/about) | This course introduces the core concepts behind distributed SQL databases and describes how CockroachDB fits into this landscape. You will learn what differentiates CockroachDB from both legacy SQL and NoSQL databases and how CockroachDB ensures consistent transactions without sacrificing scale and resiliency. You'll learn about CockroachDB's seamless horizontal scalability, distributed transactions with strict ACID guarantees, and high availability and resilience.
Cockroach University | [Practical First Steps with CockroachDB](https://university.cockroachlabs.com/courses/course-v1:crl+practical-first-steps-with-crdb+self-paced/about) | This course will give you the tools you need to get started with CockroachDB. During the course, you will learn how to spin up a cluster, use the Admin UI to monitor cluster activity, and use SQL shell to solve a set of hands-on exercises.
Cockroach University | [Enterprise Application Development with CockroachDB](https://university.cockroachlabs.com/courses/course-v1:crl+client-side-txn-handling+self-paced/about) | This course is the first in a series designed to equip you with best practices for mastering application-level (client-side) transaction management in CockroachDB. We'll dive deep on common differences between CockroachDB and legacy SQL databases and help you sidestep challenges you might encounter when migrating to CockroachDB from Oracle, PostgreSQL, and MySQL.
Cockroach University | [Building a Highly Resilient Multi-region Database using CockroachDB](https://university.cockroachlabs.com/courses/course-v1:crl+intro-to-resilience-in-multi-region+self-paced/about) | This course is part of a series introducing solutions to running low-latency, highly resilient applications for data-intensive workloads on CockroachDB. In this course we focus on surviving large-scale infrastructure failures like losing an entire cloud region without losing data during recovery. We'll show you how to use CockroachDB survival goals in a multi-region cluster to implement a highly resilient database that survives node or network failures across multiple regions with zero data loss.
Docs                 | [Migration Overview]({% link molt/migration-overview.md %}) | This page summarizes the steps of migrating a database to CockroachDB, which include testing and updating your schema to work with CockroachDB, moving your data into CockroachDB, and testing and updating your application.
Docs                 | [Architecture Overview](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v24.3/architecture/overview) | This page provides a starting point for understanding the architecture and design choices that enable CockroachDB's scalability and consistency capabilities.
Docs                 | [SQL Feature Support]({% link v24.3/sql-feature-support.md %}) | The page summarizes the standard SQL features CockroachDB supports as well as common extensions to the standard.
Docs                 | [Change Data Capture Overview]({% link v24.3/change-data-capture-overview.md %}) | This page summarizes CockroachDB's data streaming capabilities. Change data capture (CDC) provides efficient, distributed, row-level changefeeds into a configurable sink for downstream processing such as reporting, caching, or full-text indexing.
Docs                 | [Backup Architecture]({% link v24.3/backup-architecture.md %}) | This page describes the backup job workflow with a high-level overview, diagrams, and more details on each phase of the job.

[#115166]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115166
