---
title: TIMESTAMP / TIMESTAMPTZ
summary: The TIMESTAMP and TIMESTAMPTZ data types stores a date and time pair in UTC.
toc: true
---

The `TIMESTAMP` and `TIMESTAMPTZ` [data types](data-types.html) stores a date and time pair in UTC.


## Time Zone Details

`TIMESTAMP` has two variants:

- `TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE` converts `TIMESTAMP` values from UTC to the client's session time zone (unless another time zone is specified for the value). However, it is conceptually important to note that `TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE` *does not* store any time zone data.

   {{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}The default session time zone is UTC, which means that by default `TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE` values display in UTC.{{site.data.alerts.end}}

- `TIMESTAMP WITHOUT TIME ZONE` presents all `TIMESTAMP` values in UTC.

The difference between these two types is that `TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE` uses the client's session time zone, while the other simply does not. This behavior extends to functions like `now()` and `extract()` on `TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE` values.

### Best Practices

We recommend always using the `...WITH TIME ZONE` variant because the `...WITHOUT TIME ZONE` variant can sometimes lead to unexpected behaviors when it ignores a session offset. 

However, we also recommend you avoid setting a session time for your database. Instead, convert values from the default time zone (UTC) on the client side.

## Aliases

In CockroachDB, the following are aliases:

- `TIMESTAMP`, `TIMESTAMP WITHOUT TIME ZONE`
- `TIMESTAMPTZ`, `TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE`

## Syntax

A constant value of type `TIMESTAMP`/`TIMESTAMPTZ` can be expressed using an
[interpreted literal](sql-constants.html#interpreted-literals), or a
string literal
[annotated with](sql-expressions.html#explicitly-typed-expressions)
type `TIMESTAMP`/`TIMESTAMPTZ` or
[coerced to](sql-expressions.html#explicit-type-coercions) type
`TIMESTAMP`/`TIMESTAMPTZ`.

`TIMESTAMP` constants can be expressed using the
following string literal formats:

Format | Example
-------|--------
Date only | `TIMESTAMP '2016-01-25'`
Date and Time | `TIMESTAMP '2016-01-25 10:10:10.555555'`
ISO 8601 | `TIMESTAMP '2016-01-25T10:10:10.555555'`

To express a `TIMESTAMPTZ` value (with time zone offset from UTC), use
the following format: `TIMESTAMPTZ '2016-01-25 10:10:10.555555-05:00'`

When it is unambiguous, a simple unannotated string literal can also
be automatically interpreted as type `TIMESTAMP` or `TIMESTAMPTZ`.

Note that the fractional portion is optional and is rounded to
microseconds (6 digits after decimal) for compatibility with the
PostgreSQL wire protocol.

## Size

A `TIMESTAMP` column supports values up to 12 bytes in width, but the total storage size is likely to be larger due to CockroachDB metadata. 

## Examples

~~~ sql
> CREATE TABLE timestamps (a INT PRIMARY KEY, b TIMESTAMPTZ);

> SHOW COLUMNS FROM timestamps;
~~~
~~~
+-------+--------------------------+-------+---------+
| Field |           Type           | Null  | Default |
+-------+--------------------------+-------+---------+
| a     | INT                      | false | NULL    |
| b     | TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE | true  | NULL    |
+-------+--------------------------+-------+---------+
(2 rows)
~~~
~~~ sql
> INSERT INTO timestamps VALUES (1, TIMESTAMPTZ '2016-03-26 10:10:10-05:00'), (2, TIMESTAMPTZ '2016-03-26');

> SELECT * FROM timestamps;
~~~
~~~
+---+---------------------------+
| a |             b             |
+---+---------------------------+
| 1 | 2016-03-26 15:10:10+00:00 |
| 2 | 2016-03-26 00:00:00+00:00 |
+---+---------------------------+
# Note that the first timestamp is UTC-05:00, which is the equivalent of EST.
~~~

## Supported Casting & Conversion

`TIMESTAMP` values can be [cast](data-types.html#data-type-conversions-casts) to any of the following data types:

Type | Details
-----|--------
`INT` | Converts to number of seconds since the Unix epoch (Jan. 1, 1970). This is a CockroachDB experimental feature which may be changed without notice.
`SERIAL` | Converts to number of seconds since the Unix epoch (Jan. 1, 1970). This is a CockroachDB experimental feature which may be changed without notice.
`DECIMAL` | Converts to number of seconds since the Unix epoch (Jan. 1, 1970). This is a CockroachDB experimental feature which may be changed without notice.
`FLOAT` | Converts to number of seconds since the Unix epoch (Jan. 1, 1970). This is a CockroachDB experimental feature which may be changed without notice.
`DATE` | ––
`STRING` | ––

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}Because the <a href="serial.html"><code>SERIAL</code> data type</a> represents values automatically generated by CockroachDB to uniquely identify rows, you cannot meaningfully cast other data types as <code>SERIAL</code> values.{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## See Also

[Data Types](data-types.html)
