## v24.1.0-rc.2

Release Date: May 16, 2024

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v24-1-0-rc-2-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug that was present since v22.2 where [changefeeds]({% link v24.1/change-data-capture-overview.md %}) with long-running [initial scans]({% link v24.1/create-changefeed.md %}#initial-scan) might incorrectly restore checkpoint job progress and drop events during [changefeed restarts]({% link v24.1/changefeed-messages.md %}#duplicate-messages) due to transient errors or node restarts. The bug was most likely to occur in clusters with the following contributing factors:
    - The `changefeed.shutdown_checkpoint.enabled` [cluster setting]({% link v24.1/cluster-settings.md %}) was enabled (in clusters running v23.2 and later).
    - The cluster settings `changefeed.frontier_checkpoint_frequency` and `low changefeed.frontier_highwater_lag_checkpoint_threshold` were set low, which resulted in the initial scan taking many multiples of the configured frequency to complete.
    - There were multiple target tables with significant differences in row counts in one changefeed.
    - The changefeed target tables were large with many ranges.
    - The initial scan took a long time to complete (an hour or longer). [#123968][#123968]
- Fixed a crash introduced in v24.1.0-beta.2 that could occur when planning [statistics collection]({% link v24.1/cost-based-optimizer.md %}#table-statistics) on a table with a [virtual computed column]({% link v24.1/computed-columns.md %}) using a user-defined type and the `sql.stats.virtual_computed_columns.enabled` [cluster setting]({% link v24.1/cluster-settings.md %}) is set to `true`. `sql.stats.virtual_computed_columns.enabled` was introduced in v24.1.0-alpha.1 as `true` by default and introduced in v23.2.5 as `false` by default. [#124064][#124064]

<div class="release-note-contributors" markdown="1">

<h3 id="v24-1-0-rc-2-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 3 merged PRs by 3 authors.

</div>

[#123968]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123968
[#124064]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124064
