## v25.1.0

Release Date: February 18, 2025

With the release of CockroachDB v25.1, we've added new capabilities to help you migrate, build, and operate more efficiently. Refer to our summary of the most significant user-facing changes under [Feature Highlights](#v25-1-0-feature-highlights).

{% include "releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md", release: include.release %}

<h3 id="v25-1-0-feature-highlights">Feature highlights</h3>

This section summarizes the most significant user-facing changes in v25.1.0 and other features recently made available to CockroachDB users across versions. For a complete list of features and changes in v25.1, including bug fixes and performance improvements, refer to the [release notes]({% link "releases/index.md" %}#testing-releases) for previous v25.1 testing releases. You can also search the docs for sections labeled [New in v25.1](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/search?query=new+in+v25.1).

- **Feature categories**
    - [CockroachDB Cloud](#v25-1-0-cloud)
    - [Change Data Capture](#v25-1-0-change-data-capture)
    - [Cloud File Storage](#v25-1-0-disaster-recovery)
    - [SQL](#v25-1-0-sql)
    - [KV](#v25-1-0-kv)

- **Additional information**
    - [Backward-incompatible changes](#v25-1-0-backward-incompatible-changes)
    - [Key cluster setting changes](#v25-1-0-key-cluster-setting-changes)
    - [Deprecations] (#v25-1-0-deprecations)
    - [Known limitations](#v25-1-0-known-limitations)
    - [Additional resources](#v25-1-0-additional-resources)


<div id="feature-highlights">

<h4 id="v25-1-0-cloud">CockroachDB Cloud</h4>

{% include "releases/v25.1/feature-highlights-cloud.html" %}

<h4 id="v25-1-0-change-data-capture">Change Data Capture</h4>

{% include "releases/v25.1/feature-highlights-change-data-capture.html" %}

<h4 id="v25-1-0-disaster-recovery">Cloud File Storage</h4>

{% include "releases/v25.1/feature-highlights-disaster-recovery.html" %}

<h4 id="v25-1-0-sql">SQL</h4>

{% include "releases/v25.1/feature-highlights-sql.html" %}

<h4 id="v25-1-0-kv">KV</h4>

{% include "releases/v25.1/feature-highlights-kv.html" %}


{% include "releases/v25.1/feature-detail-key.html" %}

</div>

<a name="v25-1-0-backward-incompatible-changes"></a>

<h4 id="v25-1-0-backward-incompatible-changes">Backward-incompatible changes</h4>

{% include "releases/v25.1/backward-incompatible.md" %}

<a name="features-that-require-upgrade-finalization"></a>

<h4 id="features-that-require-upgrade-finalization">Features that Require Upgrade Finalization</h4>

{% include "releases/v25.1/upgrade-finalization.md" %}

<a name="v25-1-0-cluster-settings"></a>

<h4 id="v25-1-0-key-cluster-setting-changes">Key Cluster Setting Changes</h4>

{% include "releases/v25.1/cluster-setting-changes.md" %}


<a name="v25-1-0-deprecations"></a>

<h4 id="v25-1-0-deprecations">Deprecations</h4>

{% include "releases/v25.1/deprecations.md" %}

<h4 id="v25-1-0-known-limitations">Known limitations</h4>

For information about new and unresolved limitations in CockroachDB v25.1, with suggested workarounds where applicable, refer to [Known Limitations]({% link "v25.1/known-limitations.md" %}).

<h4 id="v25-1-0-additional-resources">Additional resources</h4>

Resource             | Topic                                      | Description
---------------------+--------------------------------------------+-------------
Cockroach University | [Introduction to Distributed SQL and CockroachDB](https://university.cockroachlabs.com/courses/course-v1:crl+intro-to-distributed-sql-and-cockroachdb+self-paced/about) | This course introduces the core concepts behind distributed SQL databases and describes how CockroachDB fits into this landscape. You will learn what differentiates CockroachDB from both legacy SQL and NoSQL databases and how CockroachDB ensures consistent transactions without sacrificing scale and resiliency. You'll learn about CockroachDB's seamless horizontal scalability, distributed transactions with strict ACID guarantees, and high availability and resilience.
Cockroach University | [Practical First Steps with CockroachDB](https://university.cockroachlabs.com/courses/course-v1:crl+practical-first-steps-with-crdb+self-paced/about) | This course will give you the tools you need to get started with CockroachDB. During the course, you will learn how to spin up a cluster, use the Admin UI to monitor cluster activity, and use SQL shell to solve a set of hands-on exercises.
Cockroach University | [Enterprise Application Development with CockroachDB](https://university.cockroachlabs.com/courses/course-v1:crl+client-side-txn-handling+self-paced/about) | This course is the first in a series designed to equip you with best practices for mastering application-level (client-side) transaction management in CockroachDB. We'll dive deep on common differences between CockroachDB and legacy SQL databases and help you sidestep challenges you might encounter when migrating to CockroachDB from Oracle, PostgreSQL, and MySQL.
Cockroach University | [Building a Highly Resilient Multi-region Database using CockroachDB](https://university.cockroachlabs.com/courses/course-v1:crl+intro-to-resilience-in-multi-region+self-paced/about) | This course is part of a series introducing solutions to running low-latency, highly resilient applications for data-intensive workloads on CockroachDB. In this course we focus on surviving large-scale infrastructure failures like losing an entire cloud region without losing data during recovery. We'll show you how to use CockroachDB survival goals in a multi-region cluster to implement a highly resilient database that survives node or network failures across multiple regions with zero data loss.
Docs                 | [Migration Overview]({% link "molt/migration-overview.md" %}) | This page summarizes the steps of migrating a database to CockroachDB, which include testing and updating your schema to work with CockroachDB, moving your data into CockroachDB, and testing and updating your application.
Docs                 | [Architecture Overview](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v25.1/architecture/overview) | This page provides a starting point for understanding the architecture and design choices that enable CockroachDB's scalability and consistency capabilities.
Docs                 | [SQL Feature Support]({% link "v25.1/sql-feature-support.md" %}) | The page summarizes the standard SQL features CockroachDB supports as well as common extensions to the standard.
Docs                 | [Change Data Capture Overview]({% link "v25.1/change-data-capture-overview.md" %}) | This page summarizes CockroachDB's data streaming capabilities. Change data capture (CDC) provides efficient, distributed, row-level changefeeds into a configurable sink for downstream processing such as reporting, caching, or full-text indexing.
Docs                 | [Backup Architecture]({% link "v25.1/backup-architecture.md" %}) | This page describes the backup job workflow with a high-level overview, diagrams, and more details on each phase of the job.

[#115166]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115166
