## v24.1.6

Release Date: October 17, 2024

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v24-1-6-{{-site.data.products.enterprise-}}-edition-changes">{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} edition changes</h3>

- Updated the cluster setting [`changefeed.sink_io_workers`]({% link v24.1/cluster-settings.md %}#setting-changefeed-sink-io-workers) with all the [changefeed sinks]({% link v24.1/changefeed-sinks.md %}) that support the setting.
- Added two network metrics, `changefeed.network.bytes_in` and `changefeed.network.bytes_out`. These metrics track the number of bytes sent by individual [changefeeds]({% link v24.1/change-data-capture-overview.md %}) to the following sinks:
	- [Kafka sinks]({% link v24.1/changefeed-sinks.md %}#kafka). If [child metrics are enabled]({% link v24.1/cluster-settings.md %}#setting-server-child-metrics-enabled), the metric will have a `kafka` label.
	- [Webhook sinks]({% link v24.1/changefeed-sinks.md %}#webhook-sink). If child metrics are enabled, the metric will have a `webhook` label.
	- [Pub/Sub sinks]({% link v24.1/changefeed-sinks.md %}#google-cloud-pub-sub). If child metrics are enabled, the metric will have a `pubsub` label.
	- [SQL sink]({% link v24.1/changefeed-for.md %}). If child metrics are enabled, the metric will have a `sql` label.
- Added a `changefeed.total_ranges` metric that can be used to monitor the number of ranges that are watched by [changefeed]({% link v24.1/change-data-capture-overview.md %}) aggregators. It shares the same polling interval as `changefeed.lagging_ranges`, which is controlled by the existing `lagging_ranges_polling_interval` option.
- Disambiguated [metrics]({% link v24.1/essential-metrics-self-hosted.md %}) and logs for the two buffers used by the KV feed. The following metrics now have a suffix indicating which buffer they correspond to: `changefeed.buffer_entries.*`, `changefeed.buffer_entries_mem.*`, `changefeed.buffer_pushback_nanos.*`. The old versions are kept for backward compatibility, though using the new format is recommended.
- Added timers around key parts of the [changefeed]({% link v24.1/change-data-capture-overview.md %}) pipeline to help debug feeds experiencing issues. The `changefeed.stage.{stage}.latency` metrics now emit latency histograms for each stage. The metric respects the changefeed `scope` label for debugging specific feeds.

<h3 id="v24-1-6-general-changes">General changes</h3>

- Beginning with v24.1.6, CockroachDB v24.1 is in [Long term support (LTS)]({% link releases/release-support-policy.md %}).

<h3 id="v24-1-6-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- Added a `ranges.decommissioning` [metric]({% link v24.1/metrics.md %}) representing the number of ranges that have a replica on a [decommissioning node]({% link v24.1/node-shutdown.md %}?filters=decommission).
- You can now configure the log format for the [`stderr` log sink]({% link v24.1/configure-logs.md %}#output-to-stderr) by setting the `stderr.format` field in the [YAML configuration]({% link v24.1/configure-logs.md %}#yaml-payload).

<h3 id="v24-1-6-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- The [DB Console]({% link v24.1/ui-overview.md %}) will now show a notification alerting customers without an Enterprise license to [upcoming license changes](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/enterprise-license-update/) with a link to more information.

<h3 id="v24-1-6-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug in which `SHOW CLUSTER SETTING FOR VIRTUAL CLUSTER` would erroneously return `NULL` for some settings.
- Addressed a bug in the [upgrade]({% link v24.1/upgrade-cockroach-version.md %}) pre-condition for repairing descriptor corruption, which could lead to upgrade finalization being stuck.
- Fixed a potential memory leak in [changefeeds]({% link v24.1/change-data-capture-overview.md %}) using a [cloud storage sink]({% link v24.1/changefeed-sinks.md %}#cloud-storage-sink). The memory leak could occur if both [`changefeed.fast_gzip.enabled`]({% link v24.1/cluster-settings.md %}#setting-changefeed-fast-gzip-enabled) and `changefeed.cloudstorage.async_flush.enabled` were `true`, and the changefeed received an error while attempting to write to the cloud storage sink.
- Fixed a bug in which some [`SELECT FOR UPDATE`]({% link v24.1/select-for-update.md %}) or [`SELECT FOR SHARE`]({% link v24.1/select-for-update.md %}) queries using `NOWAIT` could still block on locked rows when using the `optimizer_use_lock_op_for_serializable` [session setting]({% link v24.1/session-variables.md %}) under [`SERIALIZABLE`]({% link v24.1/demo-serializable.md %}) isolation. This bug was introduced with [`optimizer_use_lock_op_for_serializable`]({% link v24.1/session-variables.md %}#optimizer-use-lock-op-for-serializable) in v23.2.0.
- Fixed a bug that caused the [optimizer]({% link v24.1/cost-based-optimizer.md %}) to plan unnecessary post-query uniqueness checks during [`INSERT`]({% link v24.1/insert.md %}), [`UPSERT`]({% link v24.1/upsert.md %}), and [`UPDATE`]({% link v24.1/update.md %}) statements on tables with [partial]({% link v24.1/partial-indexes.md %}), [unique]({% link v24.1/create-index.md %}#unique-indexes), [hash-sharded indexes]({% link v24.1/hash-sharded-indexes.md %}). These unnecessary checks added overhead to execution of these statements, and caused the statements to error when executed under [`READ COMMITTED`]({% link v24.1/read-committed.md %}) isolation.
- Previously, if a connection was attempting a [schema change]({% link v24.1/online-schema-changes.md %}) while the same schema objects were being dropped, it was possible for the connection to be incorrectly dropped. This is now fixed.
- Fixed a bug that could result in the inability to garbage collect an [MVCC]({% link v24.1/architecture/storage-layer.md %}#mvcc) range tombstone within a [global table]({% link v24.1/global-tables.md %}).
- Fixed a bug that could cause errors with the message `internal error: Non-nullable column ...` when executing statements under [`READ COMMITTED`]({% link v24.1/read-committed.md %}) isolation that involved tables with [`NOT NULL`]({% link v24.1/not-null.md %}) virtual columns.
- Fixed a bug that could cause incorrect results for queries containing a correlated subquery with a [`GROUP BY`]({% link v24.1/select-clause.md %}#create-aggregate-groups) or [`DISTINCT ON`]({% link v24.1/select-clause.md %}#eliminate-duplicate-rows) operator referencing an outer column. This issue would occur if the correlated subquery was in the input of a [`SELECT`]({% link v24.1/select-clause.md %}) or [`JOIN`]({% link v24.1/joins.md %}) operator that had a filter equating the outer-column reference to a non-outer column in the grouping operator's input, while the grouping column set did not include the replacement column but functionally determined it. This bug was introduced in v23.1.
- The AWS endpoint and cloud custom HTTP client configuration are now considered when [implicit authentication]({% link v24.1/cloud-storage-authentication.md %}) is used for cloud storage. Previously, these were only considered when using explicit credentials.
- Fixed a bug where jobs created in sessions with non-zero session timezone offsets could hang before starting or report incorrect creation times when viewed in [`SHOW JOBS`]({% link v24.1/show-jobs.md %}) and the DB Console.
- Fixed a bug that could prevent a [changefeed]({% link v24.1/change-data-capture-overview.md %}) from being able to resume after being paused for a prolonged period of time.
- Fixed a bug where backup schedules could advance a protected timestamp too early, which caused incremental backups to fail.

<h3 id="v24-1-6-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- The [query optimizer]({% link v24.1/cost-based-optimizer.md %}) now plans limited, [partial index]({% link v24.1/partial-indexes.md %}) scans in more cases when the new session setting [`optimizer_push_limit_into_project_filtered_scan`]({% link v24.1/session-variables.md %}) is set to `on`.

<div class="release-note-contributors" markdown="1">

<h3 id="v24-1-6-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 85 merged PRs by 39 authors.

</div>
