## v24.1.0-beta.3

Release Date: April 30, 2024

{% include releases/release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v24-1-0-beta-3-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- Updated the [`SHOW GRANTS`]({% link v24.1/show-grants.md %}) responses to display the `object_type` and `object_name`, which has replaced the `relation_name` column. [#122823][#122823]
- Added [external connection]({% link v24.1/create-external-connection.md %}) granted privileges to the [`SHOW GRANTS`]({% link v24.1/show-grants.md %}) command. [#122823][#122823]
- Introduced three new [cluster settings]({% link v24.1/cluster-settings.md %}) for controlling table statistics forecasting:
    - [`sql.stats.forecasts.min_observations`]({% link v24.1/cluster-settings.md %}) is the minimum number of observed statistics required to produce a forecast.
    - [`sql.stats.forecasts.min_goodness_of_fit`]({% link v24.1/cluster-settings.md %}) is the minimum R² (goodness of fit) measurement required from all predictive models to use a forecast.
    - [`sql.stats.forecasts.max_decrease`]({% link v24.1/cluster-settings.md %}) is the most a prediction can decrease, expressed as the minimum ratio of the prediction to the lowest prior observation. [#122459][#122459]

<h3 id="v24-1-0-beta-3-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug that could lead to descriptors having privileges to roles that no longer exist. Added an automated clean up for [dropped roles]({% link v24.1/drop-role.md %}) inside descriptors. [#122701][#122701]
- Fixed a bug where [client certificate authentication]({% link v24.1/authentication.md %}#client-authentication) combined with [identity maps]({% link v24.1/sso-sql.md %}#identity-map-configuration) (`server.identity_map.configuration`) did not work since v23.1. For the feature to work correctly, the client must specify a valid db user in the [connection string]({% link v24.1/connection-parameters.md %}). [#122738][#122738]
- Fixed a bug where the [row-based execution engine]({% link v24.1/architecture/sql-layer.md %}#query-execution) could drop a [`LIMIT`]({% link v24.1/limit-offset.md %}) clause when there was an [`ORDER BY`]({% link v24.1/order-by.md %}) clause, and the ordering was partially provided by an input operator. For example, this bug could occur with an ordering such as `ORDER BY a, b` when the scanned index was only ordered on column `a`. The impact of this bug was that more rows may have been returned than specified by the `LIMIT` clause. This bug is only present when not using the [vectorized execution engine]({% link v24.1/architecture/sql-layer.md %}#vectorized-query-execution). That is, when running with `SET vectorize = off;`. This bug has existed since CockroachDB v22.1. [#122837][#122837]
- Previously, CockroachDB could run into an internal error when evaluating [PL/pgSQL]({% link v24.1/plpgsql.md %}) routines with nested blocks. The bug is only present in 24.1.0-beta versions. This bug is now fixed. [#122939][#122939]
- Fixed a bug where [`UPDATE`]({% link v24.1/update.md %}) and [`UPSERT`]({% link v24.1/upsert.md %}) queries with a subquery were sometimes inappropriately using implicit [`FOR UPDATE`]({% link v24.1/select-for-update.md %}) locking within the subquery. This bug has existed since implicit `FOR UPDATE` locking was introduced in v20.1. [#121391][#121391]
- [Dropping]({% link v24.1/alter-table.md %}#drop-column) and [adding]({% link v24.1/alter-table.md %}#add-column) a column with the same name no longer results in a `"column already exists error"`. [#122631][#122631]
- Fixed a bug that could cause an internal error of the form `invalid datum type given: ..., expected ...` when a `RECORD`-returning [user-defined function]({% link v24.1/user-defined-functions.md %}), used as a data source, was supplied a column definition list with mismatched types. This bug has existed since v23.1. [#122305][#122305]
- Fixed a bug that could result in an internal error when attempting to create a [PL/pgSQL]({% link v24.1/plpgsql.md %}) routine using the (unsupported) `%ROWTYPE` syntax for a variable declaration. Now, an expected syntax error is returned instead. [#122966][#122966]
- Fixed a bug that could result in an assertion error during evaluation of [PL/pgSQL]({% link v24.1/plpgsql.md %}) routines that invoke procedures while using `DEFAULT` arguments. The bug was present in v24.1.0-beta releases and is now fixed. [#122943][#122943]
- Previously, privileges granted for [external connections]({% link v24.1/create-external-connection.md %}) were displaying in `SHOW SYSTEM GRANTS` with no associated object name. Now these privileges are no longer displayed. Instead, the  statement `SHOW GRANTS ON EXTERNAL CONNECTION` should be used to view external connection privileges with their associated object name. [#122857][#122857]
- Statistics forecasts of zero rows can cause suboptimal [query plans]({% link v24.1/cost-based-optimizer.md %}). Forecasting will now avoid predicting zero rows for most downward-trending statistics. [#122459][#122459]
- Fixed a bug introduced in v23.2 that could cause a [PL/pgSQL]({% link v24.1/plpgsql.md %}) variable assignment to not be executed if the variable was never referenced after the assignment. [#123045][#123045]

<h3 id="v24-1-0-beta-3-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- More efficient [query plans]({% link v24.1/cost-based-optimizer.md %}) are now generated for queries with text similarity filters, for example, `text_col % 'foobar'`. These plans are generated if the `optimizer_use_trigram_similarity_optimization` [session setting]({% link v24.1/set-vars.md %}) is enabled. It is disabled by default. [#122838][#122838]
- The [optimizer]({% link v24.1/cost-based-optimizer.md %}) now costs `distinct-on` operators more accurately. It may produce more efficient query plans in some cases. [#122850][#122850]
- Improved the speed for optimization of some statements using `GROUP BY` or `DISTINCT` or `ON CONFLICT` by skipping the [optimizer]({% link v24.1/cost-based-optimizer.md %}) rule `SplitGroupByScanIntoUnionScans` when it is not needed. [#123034][#123034]

<div class="release-note-contributors" markdown="1">

<h3 id="v24-1-0-beta-3-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 56 merged PRs by 25 authors.

</div>

[#121391]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/121391
[#122305]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122305
[#122459]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122459
[#122631]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122631
[#122701]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122701
[#122738]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122738
[#122823]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122823
[#122837]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122837
[#122838]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122838
[#122850]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122850
[#122857]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122857
[#122939]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122939
[#122943]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122943
[#122966]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122966
[#123034]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123034
[#123045]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123045
