## v24.1.0-alpha.1

Release Date: March 7, 2024

{% include releases/release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v24-1-0-alpha-1-backward-incompatible-changes">Backward-incompatible changes</h3>

- [`AS OF SYSTEM TIME`]({% link v23.2/as-of-system-time.md %}) queries can no longer use a timestamp followed by a question mark to signifiy a future-time value. This was an undocumented syntax. [#116830][#116830]

<h3 id="v24-1-0-alpha-1-{{-site.data.products.enterprise-}}-edition-changes">{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} edition changes</h3>

- [`ALTER CHANGEFEED`]({% link v23.2/alter-changefeed.md %}) no longer removes a [CDC query]({% link v23.2/cdc-queries.md %}) when modifying changefeed properties. [#116498][#116498]
- `changefeed.balance_range_distribution.enable` is now deprecated. Instead, use the new [cluster setting]({% link v23.2/cluster-settings.md %}) `changefeed.default_range_distribution_strategy`. `changefeed.default_range_distribution_strategy='balanced_simple'` has the same effect as setting `changefeed.balance_range_distribution.enable=true`. It does not require `initial_scan='only'`, which was required by the old setting. [#115166][#115166]
- CDC queries now correctly handle the [`changefeed_creation_timestamp`]({% link v23.2/cdc-queries.md %}#cdc-query-function-support) function. [#117520][#117520]
- The new `WITH PRIOR REPLICATION DETAILS` option can now be passed when inspecting a virtual cluster with [`SHOW VIRTUAL CLUSTER`]({% link v23.2/show-virtual-cluster.md %}). This will request additional details about where the virtual cluster was replicated **from** and when it was activated, if that virtual cluster was created via replication. [#117636][#117636]
- The new syntax `ALTER VIRTUAL CLUSTER virtual-cluster START REPLICATION OF virtual-cluster ON physical-cluster` can now be used to reconfigure virtual clusters previously serving as sources for [physical cluster replication]({% link v23.2/physical-cluster-replication-overview.md %}) to become standbys to a promoted standby. This reverses the direction of replication while maximizing data reuse. [#117656][#117656]
- [`BACKUP`]({% link v23.2/backup.md %})s now load range information that is used to avoid a spike in metadata lookups when backups begin. [#116520][#116520]
- Clusters created to run [physical cluster replication]({% link v23.2/physical-cluster-replication-overview.md %}) no longer automatically disable the [`spanconfig.range_coalescing.system.enabled`]({% link v23.2/cluster-settings.md %}#setting-spanconfig-storage-coalesce-adjacent-enabled) and [`spanconfig.range_coalescing.application.enabled`]({% link v23.2/cluster-settings.md %}#setting-spanconfig-tenant-coalesce-adjacent-enabled) cluster settings. Users who started using physical cluster replication on v23.1 or v23.2 may wish to manually reset these settings. [#119221][#119221]
- Physical cluster replication is now always enabled, and the `physical_replication.enabled` cluster setting has been removed. [#119149][#119149]

<h3 id="v24-1-0-alpha-1-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- [`ALTER BACKUP SCHEDULE ... EXECUTE IMMEDIATELY`]({% link v23.2/alter-backup-schedule.md %}) can now be used to set the next scheduled execution of the backup schedule to the current time. [#112118][#112118]
- Fixed the [**SQL Activity**]({% link v23.2/ui-sql-dashboard.md %}) update job to avoid conflicts on update, reduced the amount of data cached to just what the overview page requires, and fixed the correctess of the top queries. [#112350][#112350]
- Previously, user-defined composite types were not populated in two `pg_catalog` tables: `pg_class` (whose row entries pertain to the type) and `pg_attribute` (whose row entries pertain to the "columns" of the type). This PostgreSQL-incompatible behavior is now fixed by populating the tables with user-defined composite types. In addition, the `typrelid` column in the `pg_type` table has the proper `oid` for composite types. [#111179][#111179]
- The newly added [built-in function]({% link v23.2/functions-and-operators.md %}#array-functions) `jsonb_array_to_string_array` no longer removes `NULL` objects. It now includes them in the resulting array. [#112975][#112975]
- Changed the display for RU estimates shown in [`EXPLAIN ANALYZE`]({% link v23.2/explain-analyze.md %}) from integer to float. This will prevent small estimates from being rounded to zero, which makes the estimate less confusing for cheap queries. [#111986][#111986]
- The `information_schema._pg_char_octet_length` [built-in function]({% link v23.2/functions-and-operators.md %}) is now supported, which improves compatibility with PostgreSQL. [#111401][#111401]
- The `pg_encoding_max_length` [built-in function]({% link v23.2/functions-and-operators.md %}) is now supported, which improves compatibility with PostgreSQL. [#111401][#111401]
- The `information_schema._pg_datetime_precision` [built-in function]({% link v23.2/functions-and-operators.md %}) is now supported, which improves compatibility with PostgreSQL. [#111401][#111401]
- The `information_schema._pg_interval_type` [built-in function]({% link v23.2/functions-and-operators.md %}) is now supported, which improves compatibility with PostgreSQL. [#111401][#111401]
- `information_schema.user_defined_types` is now populated with information about [user-defined types]({% link v23.2/create-type.md %}), and `information_schema.attributes` is now populated with information about the attributes of [composite data types]({% link v23.2/create-type.md %}#create-a-composite-data-type). [#111401][#111401]
- The [cost-based optimizer]({% link v23.2/cost-based-optimizer.md %}) will no longer generate a constrained scan that only uses filters from a [check]({% link v23.2/check.md %}) constraint. This prevents cases where a constrained scan actually scans the entire table because the constraints aren't selective. [#114332][#114332]
- Reads rolled back by savepoints are now refreshable, matching the PostgreSQL behavior and avoiding potential serializability violations. [#111424][#111424]
- Implemented the postgis `ST_TileEnvelope` [built-in function]({% link v23.2/functions-and-operators.md %}). [#112971][#112971]
- Added support for a third argument in the `array_position` [built-in function]({% link v23.2/functions-and-operators.md %}). If provided, it gives the index from which to begin searching in the array. [#112161][#112161]
- Added the `bit_count` [built-in function]({% link v23.2/functions-and-operators.md %}) for [`BIT`]({% link v23.2/bit.md %}) and [`BYTEA`]({% link v23.2/byte.md %}) types. [#115273][#115273]
- Added a `pg_backend_pid` column to `crdb_internal.node_sessions` and `crdb_internal.cluster_sessions`. This value corresponds to the numerical ID returned from `pg_backend_pid`. [#116673][#116673]
- Column type changes now require an explicit cast when automatic casting is not possible. This aligns with PostgreSQL's behavior. Previously, certain type conversions, such as [`BOOL`]({% link v23.2/bool.md %}) to [`INT`]({% link v23.2/int.md %}), were allowed without an explicit cast. [#115442][#115442]
- Added a new [session setting]({% link v23.2/session-vars.md %}), `optimizer_merge_joins_enabled` that, when true, instructs the [cost-based optimizer]({% link v23.2/cost-based-optimizer.md %}) to explore query plans with merge joins. The setting defaults to `true`. [#116410][#116410]
- CockroachDB now supports parsing queries like [`SELECT FROM t`]({% link v23.2/selection-queries.md %}) that only produce the row count and do not output any columns. [#116835][#116835]
- Added the `metaphone` [built-in function]({% link v23.2/functions-and-operators.md %}), which converts a string to its Metaphone code. [#110950][#110950]
- The new `EXPIRATION WINDOW` option for [`ALTER VIRTUAL CLUSTER`]({% link v23.2/alter-virtual-cluster.md %}) allows the user to override the default producer job expiration window of 24 hours. For example, `ALTER VIRTUAL CLUSTER appTenant SET REPLICATION EXPIRATION WINDOW ='100ms'`. The producer job expiration window determines how long the producer job stays alive without a heartbeat from the consumer job. [#117776][#117776]
- The [`SKIP LOCKED`]({% link v23.2/select-for-update.md %}#wait-policies) clause is now allowed with `SELECT ... FOR SHARE`. [#117560][#117560]
- Added configurable [cluster settings]({% link v23.2/cluster-settings.md %}) for total TCP keep alive probes (`server.sql_tcp_keep_alive.count`) and TCP probe intervals (`server.sql_tcp_keep_alive.interval`) for SQL connections. Removed the `COCKROACH_SQL_TCP_KEEP_ALIVE` environment variable subsuming it. [#115833][#115833]
- Removed the `sql.trace.session_eventlog.enabled` cluster setting and the associated event log tracing. The information in these traces is still available in the [`DEV` log channel]({% link v23.2/logging-overview.md %}#logging-channels) by enabling `--vmodule=conn_executor=2` with [`cockroach start`]({% link v23.2/cockroach-start.md %}). [#117928][#117928]
- The `array_agg` [aggregate function]({% link v23.2/functions-and-operators.md %}#aggregate-functions) can now support arrays as the input. Note that CockroachDB does not yet fully support nested arrays, and `array_agg` does not support nested arrays as inputs. [#117838][#117838]
- An execution statistic that measures "client time" is now included in `plan.txt` files of [statement diagnostics bundles]({% link v23.2/cockroach-statement-diag.md %}). Client time tracks how long the query execution was blocked on the client receiving the PGWire protocol messages. Note that when obtained via [`EXPLAIN ANALYZE (DEBUG)`]({% link v23.2/explain-analyze.md %}#debug-option), client time does not make sense because in this variant the output rows are discarded and not communicated to the client. [#117591][#117591]
- Added the `trace_id` column to the response of the [`SHOW SESSIONS`]({% link v23.2/show-sessions.md %}) command. [#118002][#118002]
- Added a field `SkippedTransactions` in the `SampledTransaction` event, which is emitted to the [`TELEMETRY` logging channel]({% link v23.2/logging-overview.md %}#logging-channels) when telemetry logging is enabled and set to "transaction" mode. [#115722][#115722]
- Added support for the `ENCODING` option of `COPY`, as long as the encoding of `'utf8'` is specified. [#118010][#118010]
- Added the `SHOW VARIABLES FOR ROLE` command, which allows the database administrator to easily view the default values for [session variables]({% link v23.2/session-vars.md %}) applied to a given user. [#117875][#117875]
- The `sql.txn.read_committed_isolation.enabled` [cluster setting]({% link v23.2/cluster-settings.md %}) is now `true` by default. This means that any syntax and settings that configure the [`READ COMMITTED`]({% link v23.2/read-committed.md %}) isolation level will now cause the transaction to use that isolation level, rather than automatically upgrading the transaction to `SERIALIZABLE`. [#118479][#118479]
- Added a new [cluster setting]({% link v23.2/cluster-settings.md %}), `sql.stats.virtual_computed_columns.enabled`, which when set enables collection of table statistics on [[`VIRTUAL` computed columns]({% link cockroachcloud/tk.md %})]({% link v23.2/computed-columns.md %}). [#118241][#118241]
- Added the `autocommit_before_ddl` [session variable]({% link v23.2/session-vars.md %}). When set to `true`, any schema change statement that is sent during an explicit transaction will cause the transaction to commit before executing the schema change. [#118440][#118440]
- [`CREATE SEQUENCE`]({% link v23.2/create-sequence.md %}) is now enabled by default in the declarative schema changer. [#117793][#117793]
- [PL/pgSQL]({% link v23.2/plpgsql.md %}) now supports nested blocks, with the following limitations: variable shadowing is disallowed, and exception handlers cannot be used in a routine with nested blocks. [#117710][#117710]
- The [cluster setting]({% link v23.2/cluster-settings.md %}) `sql.index_recommendation.drop_unused_duration` is now public. [#118676][#118676]
- It is now possible to hint to the [cost-based optimizer]({% link v23.2/cost-based-optimizer.md %}) that it should plan a straight join by using the syntax `... INNER STRAIGHT JOIN ...`. If the hint is provided, the optimizer will now fix the join order as given in the query, even if it estimates that a different plan using join reordering would have a lower cost. [#116013][#116013]
- Add column `goroutine_id` to the response of the `SHOW SESSIONS` command. [#118644][#118644]
- Introduced a new [session setting]({% link v23.2/session-vars.md %}), `close_cursors_at_commit`, which causes a cursor to remain open even after its calling transaction commits. Note that transaction rollback still closes any cursor created in that transaction. [#117910][#117910]
- Added the `server.max_open_transactions_per_gateway` [cluster setting]({% link v23.2/cluster-settings.md %}). When set to a non-negative value, non-`admin` users cannot execute a query if the number of transactions open on the current gateway node is already at the configured limit. [#118781][#118781]
- Added the `setseed` [built-in function]({% link v23.2/functions-and-operators.md %}). It sets the seed for the random generator used by the `random` built-in function. [#119042][#119042]
- `OUT` and `INOUT` parameter classes are now supported in [user-defined functions]({% link v23.2/user-defined-functions.md %}). [#118610][#118610]
- Out-of-process SQL servers will now start exporting a new `sql.aggregated_livebytes` [metric]({% link v23.2/metrics.md %}). This metric gets updated once every 60 seconds by default, and its update interval can be configured via the `tenant_global_metrics_exporter_interval` [cluster setting]({% link v23.2/cluster-settings.md %}). [#119140][#119140]
- Added support for index hints with [`INSERT`]({% link v23.2/insert.md %}) and [`UPSERT`]({% link v23.2/upsert.md %}) statements. This allows `INSERT ... ON CONFLICT` and `UPSERT` queries to use index hints in the same way they are already supported for [`UPDATE`]({% link v23.2/update.md %}) and [`DELETE`]({% link v23.2/delete.md %}) statements. [#119104][#119104]
- Added a new `ttl_disable_changefeed_replication` table storage parameter that can be used to disable changefeed replication for [row-level TTL]({% link v23.2/row-level-ttl.md %}) on a per-table basis. [#119611][#119611]

<h3 id="v24-1-0-alpha-1-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- The internal versions that are reported during [cluster upgrades]({% link v23.2/upgrade-cockroach-version.md %}) have been renamed for clarity. For example, `23.2-8` is now named `23.2-upgrading-to-24.1-step-008`. [#115223][#115223]
- The `sql.telemetry.query_sampling.mode` and `sql.telemetry.query_sampling.mode` [cluster settings]({% link v23.2/cluster-settings.md %}) are now marked as `public`. [#114186][#114186]
- Updated the error message in the case of stalled disks to use the appropriate term for that event, "disk stall", which is also the term that metrics and dashboards use. [#114746][#114746]
- Introduced the `changefeed.emitted_batch_sizes` histogram metric that measures the batch sizes used when emitting data to [sinks]({% link v23.2/changefeed-sinks.md %}). This metric supports [metrics labels]({% link v23.2/monitor-and-debug-changefeeds.md %}#using-changefeed-metrics-labels). [#115537][#115537]
- The [cluster setting]({% link v23.2/cluster-settings.md %}) `sql.contention.record_serialization_conflicts.enabled` is now `on` by default. This means any [`40001` errors]({% link v23.2/transaction-retry-error-reference.md %}) that are returned containing conflicting transaction information will be recorded by the contention registry. [#116664][#116664]
- Removed the `kv.rangefeed.scheduler.enabled` [cluster setting]({% link v23.2/cluster-settings.md %}) because the [rangefeed]({% link v23.2/create-and-configure-changefeeds.md %}#enable-rangefeeds) scheduler is now unconditionally enabled. [#114410][#114410]
- Removed the `kv.rangefeed.catchup_scan_concurrency` [cluster setting]({% link v23.2/cluster-settings.md %}). Catchup scans are throttled via [`kv.rangefeed.concurrent_catchup_iterators`]({% link v23.2/advanced-changefeed-configuration.md %}) on a per-node basis. [#114408][#114408]
- Removed the [`changefeed.mux_rangefeed.enabled`]({% link v23.2/advanced-changefeed-configuration.md %}#mux-rangefeeds) cluster setting because the functionality is enabled by default. [#114408][#114408]
- The gossip status [Advanced Debug page]({% link v23.2/ui-debug-pages.md %}) now includes information about the server's high water timestamps for every other node it knows about in the gossip cluster. [#117011][#117011]
- Removed the `cockroach_rangefeed_rpc_initial_window_size` environment variable. The rangefeed connection now uses the same window size as other RPC connections. [#117545][#117545]
- [Events]({% link v23.2/eventlog.md %}#miscellaneous-sql-events) for [cluster setting]({% link v23.2/cluster-settings.md %}) changes are now emitted to the `OPS` channel rather than the `DEV` channel. [#117923][#117923]
- Added the new environment variable,`cockroach_rpc_use_default_connection_class`, which instructs CockroachDB to send most network/RPC workloads, except the system traffic, through a single "default" RPC/TCP connection. This is a safety mechanism, it reverts to pre-v24.1 behavior in case the environment does not tolerate multiple TCP connections. The default behavior in v24.1 and later is having multiple connections dedicated to different types of traffic (e.g., Raft and rangefeeds). [#117810][#117810]
- In (unredacted) [debug zips]({% link v23.2/cockroach-debug-zip.md %}), the `crdb_internal.transaction_contention_events` table file has two new columns:
    - `waiting_stmt_query`: the query of the waiting statement.
    - `blocking_txn_queries_unordered`: the unordered list of the blocking transaction's queries. [#118478][#118478]
- Transaction replay protection state is now passed between the outgoing and incoming leaseholder for a range during a [lease transfer]({% link v23.2/architecture/replication-layer.md %}#epoch-based-leases-table-data). This avoids cases where lease transfers can cause transactions to throw `TransactionAbortedError(ABORT_REASON_NEW_LEASE_PREVENTS_TXN)` errors. [#118300][#118300]
- CockroachDB will now automatically generate [CPU profiles]({% link v23.2/automatic-cpu-profiler.md %}) if there is an increase in CPU utilization. This can help investigations into possible issues. [#118850][#118850]
- Expanded the [`--include-range-info`]({% link v23.2/cockroach-debug-zip.md %}) flag to include problem ranges. This flag still defaults to `true`. [#119205][#119205]

<h3 id="v24-1-0-alpha-1-cluster-virtualization">Cluster virtualization</h3>

- Added a new `flashback` command to revert a virtual cluster to an earlier state using [`ALTER VIRTUAL CLUSTER RESET DATA`]({% link v23.2/alter-virtual-cluster.md %}). [#117429][#117429]

<h3 id="v24-1-0-alpha-1-command-line-changes">Command-line changes</h3>

- [Debug zips]({% link v23.2/cockroach-debug-zip.md %}) no longer include redundant `hex_` columns for system table `BYTES` columns. [#112033][#112033]
- Added the `--follower-read-percent` flag, which determines the percent (0-100) of read operations that are follower reads, to the [`cockroach workload kv run`]({% link v23.2/cockroach-workload.md %}) command. [#113094][#113094]
- The workload `schemachange` now writes a `.otlp.ndjson.gz` archive containing OTLP trace bundles for debugging purposes. [#114770][#114770]
- [`cockroach debug tsdump`]({% link v23.2/cockroach-debug-tsdump.md %}) creates a `tsdump.yaml` file. The `tsdump` raw format automatically creates the YAML file in the default location `/tmp/tsdump.yaml`. Added a new flag `--yaml` that allows users to specify the path to create `tsdump.yaml` instead of using the default location. For example, `cockroach debug tsdump --host <host>:<port> \ --format raw --yaml=/some_path/tsdump.yaml > /some_path/tsdump.gob`. [#114046][#114046]
- Removed the `cockroach connect` command functionality. [#113893][#113893]
- Changed the SQL shell help URL to point to [`cockroach-sql`]({% link v23.2/cockroach-sql-binary.md %}). [#118960][#118960]
- Added a new encode-uri utility to make generating connection strings for use with [physical cluster replication]({% link v23.2/physical-cluster-replication-overview.md %}) easier. [#119528][#119528]

<h3 id="v24-1-0-alpha-1-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- Store initialization now logs progress every 10 seconds showing the current and total number of [replicas]({% link v23.2/architecture/replication-layer.md %}) initialized. [#115760][#115760]
- Introduced a new **Lease Preferences** graph on the [Replication dashboard]({% link v23.2/ui-replication-dashboard.md %}). The **Lease Preferences** graph will display when the current leaseholder is not the first lease preference and where the current leaseholder satisfies no applied lease preference. [#116709][#116709]
- Statement bundles are now enabled for tenant clusters. [#117357][#117357]
- Properly removed the warning of old date on [Active Executions]({% link v23.2/ui-statements-page.md %}#active-executions-table) when auto refresh is enabled. [#118675][#118675]
- Updated the [Statement Details page]({% link v23.2/ui-statements-page.md %}) to always show the entire selected period, instead of just the period that had data. [#118680][#118680]
- The error messages surfaced in the DB Console now include information about the HTTP response status code, if one is present. [#118782][#118782]
- The **Full Table/Index Scans** chart in the [SQL Metrics dashboard]({% link v23.2/ui-sql-dashboard.md %}) now shows the non-negative derivative of the number of full scans tracked. [#118787][#118787]
- The [Overload dashboard]({% link v23.2/ui-overload-dashboard.md %}) now includes two additional graphs:
    - **Elastic CPU Utilization**: displays the CPU utilization by elastic work, compared to the limit set for elastic work.
    - **Elastic CPU Exhausted Duration Per Second**: displays the duration of CPU exhaustion by elastic work, in microseconds. [#118763][#118763]
- The `txn.restarts.writetooold` metric in the **Transaction Restarts** graph under the [SQL Dashboard]({% link v23.2/ui-sql-dashboard.md %}) now includes all restarts previously categorized as `txn.restarts.writetoooldmulti`. The former is a now a superset of the latter. The `txn.restarts.writetoooldmulti` metric will be removed in a future release. [#119411][#119411]

<h3 id="v24-1-0-alpha-1-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug that has existed since before v22.2 that could cause an internal error during distributed execution for an expression like `CASE` that requires its inputs to be the same type with all `NULL` inputs. [#108892][#108892]
- Fixed `NULL` input handling for the geospatial [built-ins]({% link v23.2/functions-and-operators.md %}) `st_pointfromgeohash` and `st_geomfromgeohash`. [#113781][#113781]
- The geospatial `st_makeenvelope` [built-in]({% link v23.2/functions-and-operators.md %}) now correctly supports `xmin` or `ymin` to be greater than `xmax` or `ymax`, respectively. [#113781][#113781]
- Fixed a bug that could cause v23.1 nodes in clusters that had not [finalized the v23.1 version upgrade]({% link v23.2/upgrade-cockroach-version.md %}#step-3-decide-how-the-upgrade-will-be-finalized) to use excessive CPU retrying expected errors related to the incomplete upgrade state. [#113864][#113864]
- [Debug zip]({% link v23.2/cockroach-debug-zip.md %}) now does not fail on corrupted log files. [#113722][#113722]
- Placeholder arguments can now be used in [`SET TRANSACTION`]({% link v23.2/set-transaction.md %}) statements. [#113689][#113689]
- Previously, when the session variable `use_declarative_schema_changer` was set to `off`, [`ALTER PRIMARY KEY`]({% link v23.2/alter-table.md %}#alter-primary-key) would delete any comments associated with the old primary index and with the old primary key constraint. This is inconsistent with the behavior of `use_declarative_schema_changer=on`, which is the default setting, where those comments would be carried over to the new primary index. Furthermore, the old behavior also caused a bug that could prevent command `SHOW CREATE t` from working. [#114354][#114354]
- Previously, when the session variable was set to `use_declarative_schema_changer=off` and there was an attempt to [`ALTER PRIMARY KEY`]({% link v23.2/alter-table.md %}#alter-primary-key) on a table that has unique secondary indexes on new primary key columns, the unique secondary index would still incorrectly have old primary key columns as its `keySuffixColumn` after the `ALTER PRIMARY KEY`. This is problematic because a subsequent dropping of the old primary key columns would unexpectedly drop those unique secondary indexes as well, even without `CASCADE`. [#114622][#114622]
- [`ALTER BACKUP SCHEDULE`]({% link v23.2/alter-backup-schedule.md %}) can now be used to set `updates_cluster_last_backup_time_metric` without providing an explicit value, matching the behavior of the option when specified during [`CREATE SCHEDULE FOR BACKUP`]({% link v23.2/create-schedule-for-backup.md %}). [#113523][#113523]
- Previously, if there was a table with [secondary indexes]({% link v23.2/schema-design-indexes.md %}) that stores some columns `col` via the `STORING` clause, and then an [`ALTER PRIMARY KEY`]({% link v23.2/alter-table.md %}#alter-primary-key) to `col` on this table, there would be an incorrect secondary index where it continues to have the `STORING` clause, even though that column is already in the primary key and CockroachDB does not allow creating a secondary index storing any primary key columns. This commit fixes that such that after the `ALTER PRIMARY KEY`, the `STORING` clause is dropped on those secondary indexes. [#115214][#115214]
- Fixed a regression that caused uploads to [object-locked buckets]({% link v23.2/use-cloud-storage.md %}) to fail because of the absence of an `MD5` hash. [#115713][#115713]
- [`ALTER PRIMARY KEY`]({% link v23.2/alter-table.md %}#alter-primary-key) now preserves the name of the original primary index when the session variable is `use_declarative_schema_changer=off`. [#115338][#115338]
- Fixed a bug where the [unique-without-index-not-valid constraint]({% link v23.2/unique.md %}) added to a table would cause the `create_statement` from `SHOW CREATE t` to not be executable and error with `unique constraint cannot be NOT VALID`. The intention here is to disallow the index-backed-unique constraint. [#115354][#115354]
- An empty [full backup]({% link v23.2/take-full-and-incremental-backups.md %}), followed by non-empty incremental backups taken inside an application tenant may not allow [restore]({% link v23.2/restore.md %}), because of the use of an incorrect SQL codec. [#116316][#116316]
- Fixed a bug in the [row-level TTL]({% link v23.2/row-level-ttl.md %}) job that would cause it to skip expired rows if the primary key of the table included columns of the collated `STRING` or `DECIMAL` type. [#116988][#116988]
- Incorrectly labeled [PL/pgSQL]({% link v23.2/plpgsql.md %}) blocks now return an expected syntax error. [#117608][#117608]
- [`CREATE EXTERNAL CONNECTION IF NOT EXISTS`]({% link v23.2/create-external-connection.md %}) no longer returns an error if the connection already exists. [#117312][#117312]
- CockroachDB now correctly uses the histograms on columns of collated [`STRING`]({% link v23.2/string.md %}) type. The bug has been present since before v22.1. [#117714][#117714]
- Improved an interaction during range ({% link v23.2/architecture/replication-layer.md %}#epoch-based-leases-table-data) that could cause `RETRY_ASYNC_WRITE_FAILURE` errors to be returned to clients. [#117840][#117840]
- Backfilling tables for [`CREATE TABLE AS`]({% link v23.2/create-table-as.md %}) or [`CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW`]({% link v23.2/create-view.md %}) could get into a retry loop if data was deleted and those jobs took longer than the GC TTL. [#117877][#117877]
- [Decommissioning replicas]({% link v23.2/node-shutdown.md %}) that are part of a mis-replicated range will no longer get stuck on a rebalance operation that was falsely determined to be unsafe. This bug was introduced in v23.1.0. [#117900][#117900]
- A memory leak within the insights system was found to occur when [`sql.metrics.transaction_details.enabled`]({% link v23.2/cluster-settings.md %}) was disabled, while leaving `sql.metrics.statement_details.enabled` enabled. This patch fixes the memory leak by preventing the collection of further statement and transaction insights when `sql.metrics.transaction_details.enabled` is disabled. [#117709][#117709]
- Fixed a rare panic that could happen during a pg_dump import that contains a function like `SELECT addgeometrycolumn(...)`. Now, attempting to import a pg_dump with a function that has a subquery in one of its arguments results in an expected error. [#118569][#118569]
- AUTO CREATE STATS jobs could previously lead to growth in an internal system table resulting in slower job-system related queries. [#118589][#118589]
- Cockroach will no longer spam the logs with "unable to get CPU capacity" errors every 10 seconds when running outside of a CPU cgroup. [#118657][#118657]
- A bug has been fixed where casts of floats to integers truncated the value. These casts now round a float to the nearest integer, rounding ties to even integers. [#117798][#117798]
- Fix a bug where stmts like `ADD COLUMN j INT, ADD UNIQUE WIHOUT INDEX (j)` would fail with an internal error. [#118291][#118291]
- Previously, altering from a Regional By Row table to a Regional By Table table could cause leaseholders to never move to the databse's primary region. This is now fixed. [#118001][#118001]
- Those with VIEWACTIVITY privilege can now request statement bundles using crdb_internal.requets_statement_bundle or via db-console's sql activity page. [#118760][#118760]
- This commit fixes an internal error with message like: "LeafTxn ... incompatible with locking request" that occurs when performing an update under read committed isolation which cascades to a table with multiple other foreign keys. [#118722][#118722]
- ALTER PRIMARY KEY could fail with a "non-nullable column <x> with no value! Index scanned .." when validating recreated secondary indexes. [#118843][#118843]
- Fixed a bug which caused an inscrutable error when a sequence name allocated by `SERIAL` conflicted with an existing type name. [#118861][#118861]
- Fixed a bug where COMMENT statements could fail with an "unexpected value" error if multiple COMMENT statements were running concurrently. [#119007][#119007]
- Previously, CockroachDB could encounter an internal error "attempting to append refresh spans after the tracked timestamp has moved forward" in some cases when using virtual tables (like `crdb_internal.system_jobs`, etc), and this has now been fixed. The bug was introduced in 23.1 version. [#119176][#119176]
- Fixed a bug that caused the sql.txns.open.internal and sql.statements.active.internal metrics to never get updated. These metrics are gauges that count the number of transactions and statements being executed by operations internal to CockroachDB; they do not include any operations executed by the external SQL client. This bug was present since v22.1.0. [#119251][#119251]
- Crdb_internal.leases could cause a node to become unavailable due to a deadlock in the leasing subsystem. [#119305][#119305]
- If an individual replica's circuit breaker had tripped but the range was otherwise functional, e.g. because the replica was partially partitioned away from the leaseholder, it was possible for a gateway to persistently error when contacting this replica instead of retrying against a functional leaseholder elsewhere. The gateway will now retry such errors against other replicas once. [#118737][#118737]
- Fixes a bug in the webhook sink where the http request body may not be initialized on retries, resulting in the error "http: ContentLength=... with Body length 0". [#119326][#119326]
- Fixed a bug where rangefeed resolved timestamps could get stuck, continually emitting the log message "pushing old intents failed: range barrier failed, range split", typically following a range merge. [#119512][#119512]
- Fixed a condition where some files were not closed  when inspecting backup metadata during BACKUP and RESTORE. Epic: none. [#119625][#119625]
- Fixed a bug where some backup metadata files opened during RESTORE were not closed. Epic: none. [#119625][#119625]
- A bug has been fixed that caused internal errors when executing EXPORT statement. [#119538][#119538]

<h3 id="v24-1-0-alpha-1-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- Sorting by locality can improve the performance and predictability of follower reads. [#112993][#112993]
- Allows stores to start in parallel reducing start times for nodes with many stores. [#115285][#115285]
- Improved performance of encryption-at-rest. Epic: None  bdarnell@gceworker-bdarnell-fips:~/go/src/github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach$ ~/go/bin/benchstat before.bench after-xor.bench goos: linux goarch: amd64 cpu: Intel(R) Xeon(R) CPU @ 2.80GHz                                                     │ before.bench │           after-xor.bench           │                                                     │    sec/op    │   sec/op     vs base                │ FileCipherStream/fips=false/key=128/block=16/-24       64.63n ± 0%   57.87n ± 2%  -10.45% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=false/key=128/block=1024/-24     2.221µ ± 0%   1.884µ ± 0%  -15.17% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=false/key=128/block=10240/-24    21.75µ ± 0%   18.49µ ± 0%  -14.97% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=false/key=192/block=16/-24       66.86n ± 1%   60.85n ± 1%   -9.00% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=false/key=192/block=1024/-24     2.381µ ± 0%   2.037µ ± 0%  -14.47% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=false/key=192/block=10240/-24    23.34µ ± 0%   20.02µ ± 0%  -14.24% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=false/key=256/block=16/-24       69.34n ± 1%   63.02n ± 1%   -9.11% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=false/key=256/block=1024/-24     2.541µ ± 0%   2.188µ ± 0%  -13.88% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=false/key=256/block=10240/-24    24.95µ ± 0%   21.51µ ± 0%  -13.80% (p=0.000 n=10) geomean                                                1.548µ        1.349µ       -12.82%                                                      │ before.bench │           after-xor.bench            │                                                     │     B/s      │     B/s       vs base                │ FileCipherStream/fips=false/key=128/block=16/-24      236.1Mi ± 0%   263.7Mi ± 2%  +11.67% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=false/key=128/block=1024/-24    439.7Mi ± 0%   518.3Mi ± 0%  +17.89% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=false/key=128/block=10240/-24   449.0Mi ± 0%   528.1Mi ± 0%  +17.61% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=false/key=192/block=16/-24      228.2Mi ± 1%   250.8Mi ± 1%   +9.89% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=false/key=192/block=1024/-24    410.0Mi ± 0%   479.4Mi ± 0%  +16.93% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=false/key=192/block=10240/-24   418.3Mi ± 0%   487.8Mi ± 0%  +16.61% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=false/key=256/block=16/-24      220.1Mi ± 1%   242.1Mi ± 1%  +10.04% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=false/key=256/block=1024/-24    384.4Mi ± 0%   446.4Mi ± 0%  +16.12% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=false/key=256/block=10240/-24   391.4Mi ± 0%   454.1Mi ± 0%  +16.01% (p=0.000 n=10) geomean                                               339.8Mi        389.8Mi       +14.71% bdarnell@gceworker-bdarnell-fips:~/go/src/github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach$ ~/go/bin/benchstat before-fips.bench after-xor-fips.bench goos: linux goarch: amd64 cpu: Intel(R) Xeon(R) CPU @ 2.80GHz                                                    │ before-fips.bench │        after-xor-fips.bench        │                                                    │      sec/op       │   sec/op     vs base               │ FileCipherStream/fips=true/key=128/block=16/-24            270.9n ± 0%   259.2n ± 1%  -4.32% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=true/key=128/block=1024/-24          14.86µ ± 0%   14.04µ ± 0%  -5.52% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=true/key=128/block=10240/-24         149.2µ ± 1%   140.8µ ± 1%  -5.60% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=true/key=192/block=16/-24            272.3n ± 1%   260.4n ± 1%  -4.37% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=true/key=192/block=1024/-24          14.98µ ± 1%   14.17µ ± 1%  -5.41% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=true/key=192/block=10240/-24         149.3µ ± 0%   141.9µ ± 1%  -4.92% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=true/key=256/block=16/-24            273.7n ± 1%   261.3n ± 1%  -4.53% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=true/key=256/block=1024/-24          15.02µ ± 1%   14.23µ ± 2%  -5.28% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=true/key=256/block=10240/-24         150.0µ ± 1%   142.4µ ± 1%  -5.09% (p=0.000 n=10) geomean                                                    8.475µ        8.051µ       -5.01%                                                     │ before-fips.bench │        after-xor-fips.bench         │                                                    │        B/s        │     B/s       vs base               │ FileCipherStream/fips=true/key=128/block=16/-24           56.33Mi ± 0%   58.87Mi ± 1%  +4.50% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=true/key=128/block=1024/-24         65.71Mi ± 0%   69.55Mi ± 0%  +5.83% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=true/key=128/block=10240/-24        65.46Mi ± 1%   69.35Mi ± 1%  +5.94% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=true/key=192/block=16/-24           56.04Mi ± 1%   58.60Mi ± 1%  +4.57% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=true/key=192/block=1024/-24         65.20Mi ± 1%   68.93Mi ± 1%  +5.72% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=true/key=192/block=10240/-24        65.42Mi ± 0%   68.80Mi ± 1%  +5.17% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=true/key=256/block=16/-24           55.75Mi ± 1%   58.39Mi ± 1%  +4.74% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=true/key=256/block=1024/-24         65.00Mi ± 1%   68.63Mi ± 2%  +5.58% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=true/key=256/block=10240/-24        65.11Mi ± 1%   68.60Mi ± 1%  +5.36% (p=0.000 n=10) geomean                                                   62.07Mi        65.33Mi       +5.27%  bdarnell@Bens-MBP-2 cockroach % ~/go/bin/benchstat before-mac.bench after-mac.bench goos: darwin goarch: arm64                                                     │ before-mac.bench │           after-mac.bench           │                                                     │      sec/op      │   sec/op     vs base                │ FileCipherStream/fips=false/key=128/block=16/-12           29.64n ± 0%   24.76n ± 1%  -16.48% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=false/key=128/block=1024/-12        1101.5n ± 1%   841.2n ± 0%  -23.63% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=false/key=128/block=10240/-12       10.827µ ± 1%   8.273µ ± 0%  -23.59% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=false/key=192/block=16/-12           29.85n ± 1%   25.65n ± 0%  -14.05% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=false/key=192/block=1024/-12        1104.5n ± 1%   904.6n ± 0%  -18.10% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=false/key=192/block=10240/-12       10.845µ ± 1%   8.907µ ± 0%  -17.87% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=false/key=256/block=16/-12           30.56n ± 0%   27.18n ± 0%  -11.03% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=false/key=256/block=1024/-12        1139.0n ± 1%   976.3n ± 1%  -14.29% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=false/key=256/block=10240/-12       11.272µ ± 2%   9.629µ ± 2%  -14.58% (p=0.000 n=10) geomean                                                    716.2n        593.2n       -17.17%                                                      │ before-mac.bench │            after-mac.bench            │                                                     │       B/s        │      B/s       vs base                │ FileCipherStream/fips=false/key=128/block=16/-12          514.7Mi ± 0%    616.3Mi ± 1%  +19.75% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=false/key=128/block=1024/-12        886.4Mi ± 1%   1160.9Mi ± 0%  +30.96% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=false/key=128/block=10240/-12       902.0Mi ± 1%   1180.4Mi ± 0%  +30.87% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=false/key=192/block=16/-12          511.2Mi ± 1%    594.7Mi ± 0%  +16.35% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=false/key=192/block=1024/-12        884.2Mi ± 1%   1079.5Mi ± 0%  +22.09% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=false/key=192/block=10240/-12       900.5Mi ± 1%   1096.4Mi ± 0%  +21.75% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=false/key=256/block=16/-12          499.3Mi ± 0%    561.4Mi ± 0%  +12.42% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=false/key=256/block=1024/-12        857.2Mi ± 1%   1000.3Mi ± 1%  +16.69% (p=0.000 n=10) FileCipherStream/fips=false/key=256/block=10240/-12       866.4Mi ± 3%   1014.2Mi ± 2%  +17.06% (p=0.000 n=10) geomean                                                   734.4Mi         886.6Mi       +20.73% [#115454][#115454]
- Rangefeeds, the infrastructure used for changefeeds, now use a more efficient engine that reduces the number of goroutines and the associated Go scheduler pressure and latency. [#114410][#114410]
- Rangefeeds, the infrastructure for changefeeds, now use a more efficient multiplexing protocol. [#114408][#114408]
- The optimizer now generates constrained scans on indexes containing boolean, computed expressions. [#114798][#114798]
- This change introduces a separate RPC connection class for most raft traffic. This improves isolation and reduces interference with the foreground SQL traffic, which reduces chances of head-of-line blocking caused by unrelated traffic under high load conditions. The new COCKROACH_RAFT_USE_DEFAULT_CONNECTION_CLASS env variable can be set to use the default connection class instead (the previous behaviour). [#117385][#117385]
- This change separates the rangefeed traffic into its own RPC connection class. This improves isolation and reduces interference with the foreground SQL traffic, which reduces chances of head-of-line blocking caused by unrelated traffic. The new COCKROACH_RANGEFEED_USE_DEFAULT_CONNECTION_CLASS env variable can be set to use the DefaultClass instead (which was the previous default choice for rangefeeds). [#117730][#117730]
- This change makes changefeed initial scan traffic, which can be bulky, go through a different RPC/TCP connection than the foreground SQL/KV traffic. This reduces interference between workloads, and reduces chances of head-of-line blocking issues. [#117810][#117810]
- The optimizer now generates more efficient query plans for queries with comparison of timestamp and interval columns, e.g., `timestamp_col - '1 day'::INTERVAL > now()`. [#118307][#118307]

<h3 id="v24-1-0-alpha-1-miscellaneous">Miscellaneous</h3>

<h4 id="v24-1-0-alpha-1-breaking-change">Breaking change</h4>

- The --config-profile command line flag added for preview support of PCR in the previous release has been removed. Nodes, including those for clusters on which PCR may be used, are instead started normally, with the one-time steps to configure the cluster for PCR being performed via SQL statements instead. Specifically, to use PCR, on the source cluster one must 1) create an application tenant, 2) switch it to be the default, and 3) enable rangefeeds. [#119366][#119366]

<h4 id="v24-1-0-alpha-1-doc">Doc</h4>

- Cluster setting for changefeed.balance_range_distribution.enable now has a clearer description. [#114599][#114599]

<h4 id="v24-1-0-alpha-1-missing-category">Missing category</h4>

- `kafka_sink_config` now supports specifying a different client ID for different changefeeds, enabling users to define distinct kafka quota configurations for various changefeeds.  For any kafka versions >= V1_0_0_0 ([KIP-190: Handle client-ids consistently between clients and brokers](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/KAFKA/KIP-190%3A+Handle+client-ids+consistently+between+clients+and+brokers)), any string can be used as client ID. For earlier kafka versions, clientID can only contain characters [A-Za-z0-9._-] are acceptable.  For example, ``` CREATE CHANGEFEED FOR ... WITH kafka_sink_config='{"ClientID": "clientID1"}' ``` [#118643][#118643]
- Changefeed.kafka_throttling_hist_nanos has now been added to metrics to monitor sarama throttling behavior resulting from exceeding kafka quota. [#117693][#117693]
-  [#113993][#113993]

<h4 id="v24-1-0-alpha-1-changes-without-release-note-annotation">Changes without release note annotation</h4>

- [#119323][#119323] [fd6d12c72][fd6d12c72] roachprod: small fixes and refactors for pgurl (Darryl Wong <darryl.wong@cockroachlabs.com>)
- [#119323][#119323] [141c20c89][141c20c89] roachprod: small fixes and refactors for pgurl (Darryl Wong <darryl.wong@cockroachlabs.com>)
- [#119323][#119323] [cad1b02a1][cad1b02a1] roachprod: small fixes and refactors for pgurl (Darryl Wong <darryl.wong@cockroachlabs.com>)
- [#119323][#119323] [6c2183e53][6c2183e53] roachprod: small fixes and refactors for pgurl (Darryl Wong <darryl.wong@cockroachlabs.com>)
- [#119323][#119323] [0dd1de457][0dd1de457] roachprod: small fixes and refactors for pgurl (Darryl Wong <darryl.wong@cockroachlabs.com>)
- [#119250][#119250] [2545159aa][2545159aa] roachtest: use http url in follower-reads test (Darryl Wong <darryl.wong@cockroachlabs.com>)
- [#118583][#118583] [ea8aea78c][ea8aea78c] sql: add a error pgcode to circular dependency restriction (zyf123123 <858216576@qq.com>)
- [#117054][#117054] [900408efc][900408efc] CRDB-28040 : JWKS fetch from jwks_uri (BabuSrithar <babusrithar@cockroachlabs.com>)
- [#111895][#111895] [14220d671][14220d671] sql: clean up `sql/sem/tree/expr.go` (chavacava <salvadorcavadini+github@gmail.com>)
- [#117117][#117117] [b03471454][b03471454] kv: log slow requests on replica level in addition to range level (shralex <shralex@gmail.com>)
- [#116778][#116778] [30d4b2ea7][30d4b2ea7] roachtest : use spot vms for 50%(random selection) of benchmark tests (BabuSrithar <babusrithar@cockroachlabs.com>)
- [#118502][#118502] [3b2d243f4][3b2d243f4] sql/row: include pretty key in value decode error message (Jayant Shrivastava <jshrivastava03@gmail.com>)
- [#118476][#118476] [b5799bac6][b5799bac6] changefeedccl: use correct channel size in parallelio (Jayant Shrivastava <jshrivastava03@gmail.com>)
- [#118255][#118255] [1e3eaa26d][1e3eaa26d] docs: unlink custom param names from SQL diagrams (Ryan Kuo <8740013+taroface@users.noreply.github.com>)
- [#117937][#117937] [ef4605c72][ef4605c72] docs: properly generate HTML files for updated SQL diagrams (Ryan Kuo <8740013+taroface@users.noreply.github.com>)
- [#117554][#117554] [480882fdb][480882fdb] sqlproxyccl: improve authentication throttle error (Jeff Swenson <swenson@cockroachlabs.com>)
- [#115511][#115511] [ba13697aa][ba13697aa] kv: include conflicting request information in latch manager traces/logs (lyang24 <lanqingy@usc.edu>)
- [#116783][#116783] [08cccf790][08cccf790] roachtest : classify vm preemption failure as infraFlake (BabuSrithar <babusrithar@cockroachlabs.com>)
- [#116699][#116699] [08a9c1ae7][08a9c1ae7] logmetrics: add metrics for fluent write error, attempts (Josh Carp <jm.carp@gmail.com>)
- [#117191][#117191] [05049deba][05049deba] gossip: reduce verbosity of spammy message (shralex <shralex@gmail.com>)
- [#117095][#117095] [f3a28a622][f3a28a622] sqlproxyccl: delete destroy tenant portion of refresh throttling test (Jeff Swenson <swenson@cockroachlabs.com>)
- [#116879][#116879] [6bb93f29a][6bb93f29a] Revert "schemachanger: Implement CREATE DATABASE" (Faizan Qazi <faizan@cockroachlabs.com>)
- [#116474][#116474] [f9241be8c][f9241be8c] server: remove unused memory monitor (Steven Danna <danna@cockroachlabs.com>)
- [#115048][#115048] [cf685c9fa][cf685c9fa] roachtest : add --use-spot option (BabuSrithar <babusrithar@cockroachlabs.com>)
- [#114097][#114097] [b9f2d19a7][b9f2d19a7] roachprod: remove default port assumption in start and start-sql (Darryl Wong <darryl.wong@cockroachlabs.com>)
- [#116213][#116213] [412d6b88b][412d6b88b] Revert "cloud/gcp: use cloud http client for gcs" (Steven Danna <danna@cockroachlabs.com>)
- [#115473][#115473] [f67decaf2][f67decaf2] storage: disable multi-level compactions (Nick Travers <travers@cockroachlabs.com>)
- [#115169][#115169] [c6ae316e5][c6ae316e5] Revert "docker: temporarily use curl to install tzdata" (Rail Aliiev <rail@cockroachlabs.com>)
- [#114876][#114876] [d457b0cca][d457b0cca] streamingccl: allow CUTOVER TO LATEST before initial scan finishes (Michael Butler <butler@cockroachlabs.com>)
- [#114305][#114305] [9fcc551ae][9fcc551ae] CRDB-31650 : SpotVM Support in roachtest (BabuSrithar <babusrithar@cockroachlabs.com>)
- [#114973][#114973] [f2b7e9f14][f2b7e9f14] Revert "kv: store span by pointer in latch struct" (Steven Danna <danna@cockroachlabs.com>)
- [#114863][#114863] [88cfe7d55][88cfe7d55] rfc: fix Read Committed example syntax; update connection string syntax (Ryan Kuo <8740013+taroface@users.noreply.github.com>)
- [#114736][#114736] [57d260f09][57d260f09] streamingccl: deflake TestStreamingMismatchedMRDatabase (Michael Butler <butler@cockroachlabs.com>)
- [#114454][#114454] [691b544bb][691b544bb] roachtest: spruce up online restore roachtests (Michael Butler <butler@cockroachlabs.com>)
- [#114498][#114498] [8802beba3][8802beba3] ui: fix sql activity app filter on internal queries (Xin Hao Zhang <xzhang@cockroachlabs.com>)
- [#113741][#113741] [409975292][409975292] CRDB-31650 : Add Spot instance support to roachtest (BabuSrithar <babusrithar@cockroachlabs.com>)
- [#114148][#114148] [69725225f][69725225f] Fix small typos (ChanYe East <chanye.east@gmail.com>)
- [#113860][#113860] [3805f6f0a][3805f6f0a] *: disable shared process test virtual cluster on some tests (Herko Lategan <herko.lategan@gmail.com>)
- [#113679][#113679] [23228632a][23228632a] serverutils: log shared process mode for default test tenant (Herko Lategan <herko.lategan@gmail.com>)
- [#113599][#113599] [b01c287bb][b01c287bb] sql: disable shared process tenant for TestTraceAnalyzer (Herko Lategan <herko.lategan@gmail.com>)
- [#112357][#112357] [0625489bc][0625489bc] streamingccl: test that replicated backup fails post cutover (Michael Butler <butler@cockroachlabs.com>)
- [#113149][#113149] [dbff3a09a][dbff3a09a] sql/logictest: skip unreliable mixed version tests (Marcus Gartner <marcus@cockroachlabs.com>)
- [#112203][#112203] [874b3fc21][874b3fc21] cmd/roachtest: create monitor earlier in clearrange roachtest (Jackson Owens <jackson@cockroachlabs.com>)
- [#112162][#112162] [29229633a][29229633a] Revert "roachtest: bump span stats limit for `failover`" (Andrew Baptist <baptist@cockroachlabs.com>, Erik Grinaker <grinaker@cockroachlabs.com>)

<h3 id="v24-1-0-alpha-1-doc-updates">Doc updates</h3>

{% comment %}Docs team: Please add these manually.{% endcomment %}

<div class="release-note-contributors" markdown="1">

<h3 id="v24-1-0-alpha-1-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 1851 merged PRs by 108 authors.
We would like to thank the following contributors from the CockroachDB community:

- Akshay Joshi (first-time contributor, CockroachDB team member)
- Andrew Delph (first-time contributor)
- Arjun Mahishi (first-time contributor, CockroachDB team member)
- Author Name (first-time contributor, CockroachDB team member)
- BabuSrithar (first-time contributor, CockroachDB team member)
- ChanYe East (first-time contributor)
- Charles (first-time contributor)
- Cheran Mahalingam (first-time contributor, CockroachDB team member)
- Darryl Wong (first-time contributor, CockroachDB team member)
- David Hartunian (first-time contributor, CockroachDB team member)
- Eric.Yang
- Harshit Vishwakarma (first-time contributor)
- HighPon
- Howard Ma (first-time contributor, CockroachDB team member)
- Jasmine Sun (first-time contributor)
- Josh Carp
- Joshua Hildred (first-time contributor)
- Kevin Mingtarja (first-time contributor)
- Luis Pessoa (first-time contributor)
- Mark Sirek (first-time contributor, CockroachDB team member)
- Matthew Sanabria (first-time contributor)
- Nikolai Vladimirov (first-time contributor)
- Rachael Harding (first-time contributor, CockroachDB team member)
- Rahul Srivastava (first-time contributor, CockroachDB team member)
- Rima Deodhar (first-time contributor, CockroachDB team member)
- Sourav Sarangi (first-time contributor, CockroachDB team member)
- Tushar Jain (first-time contributor, CockroachDB team member)
- Wenyi Hu (first-time contributor, CockroachDB team member)
- chavacava (first-time contributor)
- craig
- cty123
- da-ket (first-time contributor)
- daniel-crlabs (first-time contributor)
- lyang24 (first-time contributor)
- michae2 (first-time contributor)
- rharding6373
- shralex
- zach.graves (first-time contributor)
- zyf123123 (first-time contributor)

</div>

[#108892]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/108892
[#110950]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/110950
[#111179]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/111179
[#111401]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/111401
[#111424]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/111424
[#111895]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/111895
[#111986]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/111986
[#112033]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/112033
[#112118]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/112118
[#112161]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/112161
[#112162]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/112162
[#112203]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/112203
[#112350]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/112350
[#112357]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/112357
[#112971]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/112971
[#112975]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/112975
[#112993]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/112993
[#113094]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/113094
[#113149]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/113149
[#113523]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/113523
[#113599]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/113599
[#113679]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/113679
[#113689]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/113689
[#113722]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/113722
[#113741]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/113741
[#113781]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/113781
[#113860]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/113860
[#113864]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/113864
[#113893]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/113893
[#113993]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/113993
[#114046]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/114046
[#114097]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/114097
[#114148]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/114148
[#114186]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/114186
[#114305]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/114305
[#114332]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/114332
[#114354]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/114354
[#114408]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/114408
[#114410]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/114410
[#114454]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/114454
[#114498]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/114498
[#114599]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/114599
[#114622]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/114622
[#114736]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/114736
[#114746]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/114746
[#114770]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/114770
[#114798]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/114798
[#114863]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/114863
[#114876]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/114876
[#114973]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/114973
[#115048]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115048
[#115166]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115166
[#115169]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115169
[#115214]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115214
[#115223]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115223
[#115273]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115273
[#115285]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115285
[#115338]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115338
[#115354]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115354
[#115442]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115442
[#115454]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115454
[#115473]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115473
[#115511]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115511
[#115537]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115537
[#115713]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115713
[#115722]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115722
[#115733]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115733
[#115760]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115760
[#115833]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/115833
[#116013]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/116013
[#116213]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/116213
[#116316]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/116316
[#116410]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/116410
[#116474]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/116474
[#116498]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/116498
[#116520]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/116520
[#116664]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/116664
[#116673]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/116673
[#116699]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/116699
[#116709]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/116709
[#116778]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/116778
[#116783]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/116783
[#116830]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/116830
[#116835]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/116835
[#116879]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/116879
[#116988]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/116988
[#117011]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117011
[#117054]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117054
[#117095]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117095
[#117117]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117117
[#117191]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117191
[#117312]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117312
[#117357]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117357
[#117385]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117385
[#117429]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117429
[#117520]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117520
[#117545]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117545
[#117554]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117554
[#117560]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117560
[#117591]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117591
[#117608]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117608
[#117636]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117636
[#117656]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117656
[#117693]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117693
[#117709]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117709
[#117710]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117710
[#117714]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117714
[#117730]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117730
[#117776]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117776
[#117793]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117793
[#117798]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117798
[#117810]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117810
[#117838]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117838
[#117840]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117840
[#117875]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117875
[#117877]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117877
[#117900]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117900
[#117910]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117910
[#117923]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117923
[#117928]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117928
[#117936]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117936
[#117937]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/117937
[#118001]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118001
[#118002]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118002
[#118010]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118010
[#118241]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118241
[#118255]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118255
[#118291]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118291
[#118300]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118300
[#118307]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118307
[#118440]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118440
[#118476]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118476
[#118478]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118478
[#118479]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118479
[#118502]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118502
[#118569]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118569
[#118583]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118583
[#118589]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118589
[#118610]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118610
[#118643]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118643
[#118644]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118644
[#118657]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118657
[#118675]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118675
[#118676]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118676
[#118680]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118680
[#118722]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118722
[#118737]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118737
[#118760]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118760
[#118763]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118763
[#118781]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118781
[#118782]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118782
[#118787]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118787
[#118843]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118843
[#118850]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118850
[#118861]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118861
[#118960]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/118960
[#119007]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/119007
[#119042]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/119042
[#119104]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/119104
[#119140]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/119140
[#119149]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/119149
[#119176]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/119176
[#119205]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/119205
[#119221]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/119221
[#119250]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/119250
[#119251]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/119251
[#119305]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/119305
[#119323]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/119323
[#119326]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/119326
[#119366]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/119366
[#119411]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/119411
[#119512]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/119512
[#119528]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/119528
[#119538]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/119538
[#119611]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/119611
[#119625]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/119625
[05049deba]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/05049deba
[0625489bc]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/0625489bc
[08a9c1ae7]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/08a9c1ae7
[08cccf790]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/08cccf790
[0dd1de457]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/0dd1de457
[141c20c89]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/141c20c89
[14220d671]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/14220d671
[1e3eaa26d]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/1e3eaa26d
[23228632a]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/23228632a
[2545159aa]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/2545159aa
[29229633a]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/29229633a
[30d4b2ea7]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/30d4b2ea7
[3805f6f0a]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/3805f6f0a
[3b2d243f4]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/3b2d243f4
[409975292]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/409975292
[412d6b88b]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/412d6b88b
[480882fdb]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/480882fdb
[57d260f09]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/57d260f09
[691b544bb]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/691b544bb
[69725225f]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/69725225f
[6bb93f29a]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/6bb93f29a
[6c2183e53]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/6c2183e53
[874b3fc21]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/874b3fc21
[8802beba3]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/8802beba3
[88cfe7d55]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/88cfe7d55
[900408efc]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/900408efc
[9fcc551ae]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/9fcc551ae
[b01c287bb]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/b01c287bb
[b03471454]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/b03471454
[b5799bac6]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/b5799bac6
[b9f2d19a7]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/b9f2d19a7
[ba13697aa]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/ba13697aa
[c6ae316e5]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/c6ae316e5
[cad1b02a1]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/cad1b02a1
[cf685c9fa]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/cf685c9fa
[d457b0cca]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/d457b0cca
[dbff3a09a]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/dbff3a09a
[ea8aea78c]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/ea8aea78c
[ef4605c72]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/ef4605c72
[f2b7e9f14]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/f2b7e9f14
[f3a28a622]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/f3a28a622
[f67decaf2]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/f67decaf2
[f9241be8c]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/f9241be8c
[fd6d12c72]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/fd6d12c72
