## v24.1.0-rc.1

Release Date: May 8, 2024

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v24-1-0-rc-1-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- Added a new [session setting]({% link v24.1/session-variables.md %}) `optimizer_use_improved_multi_column_selectivity_estimate`, which if enabled, causes the [optimizer]({% link v24.1/cost-based-optimizer.md %}) to use an improved selectivity estimate for multi-column predicates. This setting will default to `true` on v24.2 and later, and `false` on earlier versions. [#123106][#123106]

<h3 id="v24-1-0-rc-1-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- Added two new [metrics]({% link v24.1/metrics.md %}): `range.snapshots.upreplication.rcvd-bytes` counts the number of [Raft]({% link v24.1/architecture/replication-layer.md %}#raft) recovery snapshot bytes received, and `range.snapshots.upreplication.sent-bytes` counts the number of Raft recovery snapshot bytes sent. Also updated `range.snapshots.recovery.rcvd-bytes` and `range.snapshots.recovery.sent-bytes` to only include Raft snapshots. A new line was added to the [**Snapshot Data Received**]({% link v24.1/ui-replication-dashboard.md %}#snapshot-data-received) graph. [#123055][#123055]

<h3 id="v24-1-0-rc-1-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- Added a **Replication Lag** graph to the [**Physical Cluster Replication**]({% link v24.1/physical-cluster-replication-monitoring.md %}) dashboard to measure replication lag between primary and standby clusters using [physical cluster replication]({% link v24.1/physical-cluster-replication-overview.md %}). [#123285][#123285]

<h3 id="v24-1-0-rc-1-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug that caused the [**Tables**]({% link v24.1/ui-databases-page.md %}#tables-view) and [**Table Details**]({% link v24.1/ui-databases-page.md %}#table-details) pages in the DB Console to display an incorrect value for **Table Stats Last Updated**. [#122816][#122816]
- Fixed a bug in the DB Console's [**Custom Chart**]({% link v24.1/ui-custom-chart-debug-page.md %}) tool where store-level metrics were displayed only for the first store ID associated with the node. Now data is displayed for all stores present on a node, and a single time series is shown for each store, rather than an aggregated value for all of the node's stores. This allows finer-grained monitoring of store-level metrics. [#122705][#122705]
- Fixed a bug introduced in v22.2 that could cause the internal error `attempting to append refresh spans after the tracked timestamp has moved forward` in some edge cases.  [#123136][#123136]
- Fixed a bug where a `TYPEDESC SCHEMA CHANGE` job could retry forever if the descriptor it targeted was already dropped. [#123273][#123273]
- Fixed a bug where, if the legacy schema changer was enabled, the [`CREATE SEQUENCE`]({% link v24.1/create-sequence.md %}) command would incorrectly require the user to have the `CREATE` [privilege]({% link v24.1/security-reference/authorization.md %}#privileges) on the parent database rather than only on the parent schema.[#123289][#123289]
- Fixed a bug where a [job]({% link v24.1/show-jobs.md %}) would fail if it reported an out-of-bound progress fraction. The error is now logged and no longer causes the job to fail. [#122965][#122965]

<h3 id="v24-1-0-rc-1-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- Added a new [session setting]({% link v24.1/session-variables.md %}) `optimizer_use_improved_zigzag_join_costing`. When enabled and when the [cluster setting]({% link v24.1/cluster-settings.md %}) `enable_zigzag_join` is also enabled, the cost of zigzag joins is updated such that a zigzag join will be chosen over a scan only if it produces fewer rows than a scan.[#123106][#123106]
- Improved the selectivity estimation of multi-column filters when the multi-column distinct count is high. This prevents the [optimizer]({% link v24.1/cost-based-optimizer.md %}) from choosing a bad query plan due to over-estimating the selectivity of a multi-column predicate. [#123106][#123106]
- Improved the efficiency of error handling in the [vectorized execution engine]({% link v24.1/vectorized-execution.md %}), to reduce the CPU overhead of statement timeout handling and reduce the potential for more statement timeouts. [#123501][#123501]
- Disabled a poorly-performing [changefeed]({% link v24.1/change-data-capture-overview.md %}) optimization that was intended to reduce duplicates during aggregator restarts. [#123597][#123597]

<div class="release-note-contributors" markdown="1">

<h3 id="v24-1-0-rc-1-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 57 merged PRs by 24 authors.

</div>

[#122705]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122705
[#122816]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122816
[#122965]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/122965
[#123055]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123055
[#123106]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123106
[#123136]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123136
[#123144]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123144
[#123273]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123273
[#123285]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123285
[#123289]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123289
[#123373]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123373
[#123501]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123501
[#123597]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123597
