## v24.1.1

Release Date: June 14, 2024

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v24-1-1-{{-site.data.products.enterprise-}}-edition-changes">{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} edition changes</h3>

- Fixed a bug that was present since v22.2 where [changefeeds]({% link v24.1/change-data-capture-overview.md %}) with long-running [initial scans]({% link v24.1/create-changefeed.md %}#initial-scan) might incorrectly restore checkpoint job progress and drop events during [changefeed restarts]({% link v24.1/changefeed-messages.md %}#duplicate-messages) due to transient errors or node restarts. The bug was most likely to occur in clusters with the following contributing factors:
    - The `changefeed.shutdown_checkpoint.enabled` [cluster setting]({% link v24.1/cluster-settings.md %}) was enabled (in clusters running v23.2 and later).
    - The cluster settings `changefeed.frontier_checkpoint_frequency` and `low changefeed.frontier_highwater_lag_checkpoint_threshold` were set low, which resulted in the initial scan taking many multiples of the configured frequency to complete.
    - There were multiple target tables with significant differences in row counts in one changefeed.
    - The changefeed target tables were large with many ranges.
    - The initial scan took a long time to complete (an hour or longer). [#123967][#123967]
- History retention jobs created upon completion of [cluster replication]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/physical-cluster-replication-overview.md %}) no longer erroneously indicate that they failed when they expire. [#124055][#124055]

<h3 id="v24-1-1-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- The  [optimizer]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cost-based-optimizer.md %}) can now plan constrained scans over partial indexes in more cases, particularly on partial indexes with predicates referencing [virtual computed columns]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/computed-columns.md %}#virtual-computed-columns). [#123468][#123468]
- The storage parameter `ttl_delete_rate_limit`, which determines the rate limit for deleting expired rows, is now set to `100` by default. [#124354][#124354]
- CockroachDB no longer limits precision when converting [spatial data types]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/architecture/glossary#data-types.md %}) to JSON. [#124536][#124536]
- The `optimizer_push_offset_into_index_join` [session setting]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/session-variables.md %}) has been added. When enabled, the  [optimizer]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cost-based-optimizer.md %}) will attempt to push offset expressions into index join expressions to produce more efficient query plans. The setting is enabled by default on v24.1 and later, and disabled on v23.2. [#124490][#124490]
- The default value of the `sql.defaults.results_buffer.size` [cluster setting]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cluster-settings.md %}) has been changed from 16KiB to 512KiB. This reduces the chance that clients using [`READ COMMITTED`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/read-committed.md %}) transactions will hit errors that cannot automatically be retried within CockroachDB. [#124633][#124633]

<h3 id="v24-1-1-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- The default limit for in-memory statement and transaction fingerprints has been lowered from 100,000 to 5000. This affects the [cluster settings]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cluster-settings.md %}) `sql.metrics.max_mem_stmt_fingerprints` and `sql.metrics.max_mem_txn_fingerprints`. [#123430][#123430]
- Added the `sql.pgwire.pipeline.count` [metric]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/metrics.md %}), which is a gauge that measures how many wire protocol commands have been received by the server, but have not yet begun processing. This metric will only grow if clients are using the "pipeline mode" of the PostgreSQL wire protocol. [#124256][#124256]
- The `client_authentication_ok` and `client_session_end` messages are now logged to the `SESSIONS` [log channel]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/logging-overview.md %}#logging-channels) unconditionally. Previously, these would only be logged if the `server.auth_log.sql_sessions.enabled` [cluster setting]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cluster-settings.md %}) was set to `true`. All other `SESSIONS` log messages are still only logged if `server.auth_log.sql_sessions.enabled` or `server.auth_log.sql_connections.enabled` are set to `true`. If you do not want to see `client_authentication_ok` or `client_session_end` messages, then the `SESSIONS` log channel can be disabled entirely. [#124369][#124369]

<h3 id="v24-1-1-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- Previously, the [replication lag metric]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/physical-cluster-replication-monitoring.md %}) would falsely report high lag for multi-node clusters and on cutover. This is now fixed. [#123585][#123585]
- [**SQL Activity**]({% link v23.2/ui-sql-dashboard.md %}) entries sorted by `% of Runtime` are now correctly sorted by the runtime amount. [#123903][#123903]
- Removed the "Admission Delay Rate", "Admission Work Rate", and "Requests Waiting For Flow Tokens" time-series charts from the DB Console. These charts often cause confusion and are not useful for general overload investigations. [#124509][#124509]
- The [**Overload** dashboard]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/ui-overload-dashboard.md %}) now includes descriptions for all metrics. [#124509][#124509]
- Reordered metrics on the [**Overload** dashboard]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/ui-overload-dashboard.md %}) to improve their categorization. The metrics are now roughly in the following order: 1. Metrics to help determine which resource is constrained (IO, CPU); 2. Metrics to narrow down which [admission control]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/admission-control.md %}) queues are seeing requests waiting; 3. More advanced metrics about the system health (goroutine scheduler, L0 sublevels, etc.). [#124509][#124509]
- Added the `cr.store.storage.l0-sublevels` and `cr.node.go.scheduler_latency-p99.9` metrics on the [**Overload** dashboard]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/ui-overload-dashboard.md %}) for better visibility into overloaded resources. [#124509][#124509]
- There are now four separate graphs for Admission Queue Delay: 1. Foreground (regular) CPU work; 2. Store (IO) work; 3. Background (elastic) CPU work; 4. Replication Admission Control (store overload on replicas). [#124509][#124509]
- The `Admission Queueing Delay – Store` chart now separates elastic (background) work from the regular foreground work. [#124509][#124509]
- The `Admission IO Tokens Exhausted` chart now separates elastic and regular IO work. [#124509][#124509]

<h3 id="v24-1-1-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug that would occur when [`ALTER TYPE ... DROP VALUE`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/alter-type.md %}) is followed by `DROP SCHEMA CASCADE ...` in the same transaction. Previously, the `ALTER TYPE` schema change would get queued up to run at commit time, but by that point, the type may have already been removed, so the commit could fail. [#123577][#123577]
- CockroachDB now automatically repairs tables that see the error `invalid inbound foreign key ... origin table ID should be" or "invalid outbound foreign key ... reference table ID should be`. [#123668][#123668]
- Fixed a bug where a failed [`RESTORE`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/restore.md %}) could leave the system in a state where re-attempting the restore was not possible without manual intervention. [#123205][#123205]
- Fixed a bug that could cause calling a routine to return an unexpected `function ... does not exist` error. The bug is triggered when the routine is called twice using the exact same SQL query, and either: (a) the routine has polymorphic arguments, or: (b) in between the two calls, the routine is replaced by a routine with the same name and different parameters. This bug has existed since alpha versions of v23.1. [#123516][#123516]
- Fixed a rare bug where a lease transfer could lead to a `side-transport update saw closed timestamp regression` panic. The bug could occur when a node was overloaded and [failing to heartbeat its node liveness record]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cluster-setup-troubleshooting.md %}#node-liveness-issues). [#123533][#123533]
- Fixed a crash introduced in v24.1.0-beta.2 that could occur when planning statistics collection on a table with a [virtual computed column]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/computed-columns.md %}#virtual-computed-columns) using a user-defined type when the newly-introduced [cluster setting]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cluster-settings.md %}) `sql.stats.virtual_computed_columns.enabled` is set to `true`. (The setting was introduced in v24.1.0-alpha.1, and defaults to `true`.) [#124060][#124060]
- Previously, [`ALTER TABLE ... ALTER PRIMARY KEY`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/alter-table.md %}#alter-primary-key) could hang if the table had any indexes which were referred to by [views]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/views.md %}) or [functions]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/functions-and-operators.md %}) using the force index syntax. This is now fixed. [#124323][#124323]
- Fixed a bug where CockroachDB would ignore the `max_decimal_digits` argument of the `st_geojson` [builtin function]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/functions-and-operators.md %}#built-in-functions) and would use the default instead. The bug was only present in v24.1.0. [#124502][#124502]
- Scattering a range with a replication factor of 1 now no longer erroneously up-replicates the range to two replicas. Leases will also no longer thrash between nodes when perturbed with a replication factor of 1. [#124453][#124453]
- Previously, if the `ttl_row_stats_poll_interval` storage parameter was non-zero for a table with [row-level TTL]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/row-level-ttl.md %}) enabled, the queries issued to update row stats could block the job from completing. Now, if the job completes, these stats queries are cancelled instead. This means that the `jobs.row_level_ttl.total_rows` and `jobs.row_level_ttl.total_expired_rows` metrics will report `0` if the job finishes before the row stats queries complete. [#124627][#124627]
- Fixed a bug where [`DROP ROLE`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/drop-role.md %})/[`DROP USER`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/drop-user.md %}) could leave references behind inside types, which could prevent [`SHOW GRANTS`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/show-grants.md %}) from working. [#124619][#124619]
- Previously, the `results_buffer_size` [session variable]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/session-variables.md %}) could not be configured by using the "options" query parameter in the connection string; it could only be configured as a top-level query parameter. Now, `results_buffer_size` can be configured in either part of the connection string. (This variable still cannot be changed with the [`SET`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/set-vars.md %}) command after the session begins.) [#124775][#124775]
- Fixed a bug where a change to a user-defined type could cause queries against tables using that type to fail with an error message like: `histogram.go:694: span must be fully contained in the bucket`. The change to the user-defined type could come directly from an [`ALTER TYPE`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/alter-type.md %}) statement, or indirectly from an [`ALTER DATABASE ... ADD REGION`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/alter-database.md %}#add-region) or [`DROP REGION`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/alter-database.md %}#drop-region) statement (which implicitly change the `crdb_internal_region` type). This bug had existed since user-defined types were introduced in v20.2. [#124856][#124856]

<h3 id="v24-1-1-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- Improved the efficiency of error handling in the [vectorized execution engine]({% link v24.1/vectorized-execution.md %}) in order to reduce the CPU overhead of statement timeout handling and reduce the potential for more statement timeouts. [#123499][#123499]
- Disabled a [changefeed]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/change-data-capture.md %}) optimization on reducing duplicates during aggregator restarts due to its bad performance. [#125021][#125021]

<div class="release-note-contributors" markdown="1">

<h3 id="v24-1-1-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 173 merged PRs by 42 authors.

</div>

[#123205]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123205
[#123430]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123430
[#123468]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123468
[#123499]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123499
[#123516]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123516
[#123533]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123533
[#123577]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123577
[#123585]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123585
[#123595]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123595
[#123668]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123668
[#123903]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123903
[#123967]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/123967
[#124055]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124055
[#124060]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124060
[#124085]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124085
[#124256]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124256
[#124304]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124304
[#124323]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124323
[#124354]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124354
[#124369]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124369
[#124453]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124453
[#124490]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124490
[#124502]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124502
[#124509]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124509
[#124536]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124536
[#124619]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124619
[#124627]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124627
[#124633]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124633
[#124775]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124775
[#124856]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/124856
[0f67079b6]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/0f67079b6
[eab42ef7a]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/eab42ef7a
