_includes/v22.2/sql/regional-by-row-table-description.md, before:

In a _regional by row_ table, individual rows are optimized for access from different regions. This setting automatically divides a table and all of [its indexes](multiregion-overview.html#indexes-on-regional-by-row-tables) into [partitions](partitioning.html), with each partition optimized for access from a different region. Like [regional tables](multiregion-overview.html#regional-tables), _regional by row_ tables are optimized for access from a single region. However, that region is specified at the row level instead of applying to the whole table.

Use regional by row tables when your application requires low-latency reads and writes at a row level where individual rows are primarily accessed from a single region. For example, a users table in a global application may need to keep some users' data in specific regions for better performance.

For an example of a table that can benefit from the _regional by row_ setting in a multi-region deployment, see the `users` table from the [MovR application](movr.html).

For instructions showing how to set a table's locality to `REGIONAL BY ROW`, see [`ALTER TABLE ... SET LOCALITY`](set-locality.html#regional-by-row).

Commit message:

enforce_home_region session setting (#15591)
* enforce_home_region session setting
* clarify home regions

_includes/v22.2/sql/regional-by-row-table-description.md, after:

In a _regional by row_ table, individual rows are optimized for access from different home regions. Every row in a regional by row table has a [column of type `crdb_internal_region`](set-locality.html#crdb_region) that represents the row's home region. The `REGIONAL BY ROW` setting automatically divides a table and all of [its indexes](multiregion-overview.html#indexes-on-regional-by-row-tables) into [partitions](partitioning.html), with each partition optimized for access from a different region. Like [regional tables](multiregion-overview.html#regional-tables), _regional by row_ tables are optimized for access from a single region. However, that region is specified at the row level instead of applying to the whole table.

Use regional by row tables when your application requires low-latency reads and writes at a row level where individual rows are primarily accessed from a single region. For example, a users table in a global application may need to keep some users' data in specific regions for better performance.

For an example of a table that can benefit from the _regional by row_ setting in a multi-region deployment, see the `users` table from the [MovR application](movr.html).

For instructions showing how to set a table's locality to `REGIONAL BY ROW` and configure its home regions, see [`ALTER TABLE ... SET LOCALITY`](set-locality.html#crdb_region).
