## v22.2.9

Release Date: May 8, 2023

{% include releases/release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v22-2-9-general-changes">General changes</h3>

- SQL queries with invalid syntax are now logged at [the `INFO` level](../v22.2/logging.html#info) in the `SQL_EXEC` log channel. Previously these were logged at the `ERROR` level. [#101093][#101093]

<h3 id="v22-2-9-{{-site.data.products.enterprise-}}-edition-changes">{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} edition changes</h3>

- [Changefeeds using the `WITH confluent_schema_registry` option](../v22.2/stream-a-changefeed-to-a-confluent-cloud-kafka-cluster.html) will make fewer duplicate schema registrations. [#100843][#100843]

<h3 id="v22-2-9-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- Added a new [session variable](../v22.2/set-vars.html) `unbounded_parallel_scans` which controls whether scans will be parallelized across [ranges](../v22.2/architecture/overview.html#architecture-range) in more cases. Note that using this feature can lead to increased likelihood of [out-of-memory errors (OOMs)](../v22.2/cluster-setup-troubleshooting.html#out-of-memory-oom-crash), so it should be used with care (namely when you expect that the scan should read a "reasonable" number of rows - probably less than 10k). Also note that [queries with `LIMIT`s](../v22.2/limit-offset.html) aren't affected by this variable; cross-range parallelism of scans continues to be disabled for such queries. [#100949][#100949]
- Tables with [Row-level TTL](../v22.2/row-level-ttl.html) settings can now have outbound [foreign keys](../v22.2/foreign-key.html). These outbound foreign keys are unaffected by rows being deleted from tables with Row-level TTL. [cockroachdb/cockroach#101876][#101876]

<h3 id="v22-2-9-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- When local corruption of data is encountered by a background job in the [storage engine](../v22.2/architecture/storage-layer.html), a node will now exit immediately. [cockroachdb/cockroach#102273][#102273]
- Added a [metric](../v22.2/metrics.html) `leases.requests.latency` recording a histogram of [lease](../v22.2/architecture/overview.html#architecture-leaseholder) request latencies. [cockroachdb/cockroach#100474][#100474]

<h3 id="v22-2-9-command-line-changes">Command-line changes</h3>

- The utility script `hot-ranges.sh` that is included in [`cockroach debug zip`](../v22.2/cockroach-debug-zip.html) output now partitions its output by the following statistics: `queries_per_second`, `writes_per_second`, `read_bytes_per_second`, `write_bytes_per_second`. It also decreases the number of [ranges](../v22.2/architecture/overview.html#architecture-range) shown under each heading from 20 to 10. [cockroachdb/cockroach#93638][#93638]

<h3 id="v22-2-9-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- When no data is persisted to the [`crdb_internal.transaction_statistics`](../v22.2/crdb-internal.html#transaction_statistics) and [`crdb_internal.statement_statistics`](../v22.2/crdb-internal.html#statement_statistics) tables (because no disk flush happened yet or because the flush is disabled), the endpoints powering the [SQL Activity page in the DB Console](../v22.2/ui-overview.html#sql-activity) should fall back to the combined view that contains the in-memory data. [cockroachdb/cockroach#101167][#101167]
- [`SET` statements](../v22.2/set-vars.html) are no longer displayed on the [DB Console's Insights page](../v22.2/ui-insights-page.html). [#101684][#101684]
- On the [SQL Activity](../v22.2/ui-overview.html#sql-activity) [fingerprints](../v22.2/ui-statements-page.html#statement-fingerprints-view) [pages](../v22.2/ui-transactions-page.html#transaction-fingerprints-view), users will not see stats that have not yet been flushed to disk. [#99403][#99403]
- Users can request Top-K statements by their percentage of runtime on the [SQL Activity](../v22.2/ui-overview.html#sql-activity) [fingerprints](../v22.2/ui-statements-page.html#statement-fingerprints-view) [pages](../v22.2/ui-transactions-page.html#transaction-fingerprints-view). [#99403][#99403]
- Added a **Search Criteria** heading to the [Statements page](../v22.2/ui-statements-page.html) and the [Transactions page](../v22.2/ui-transactions-page.html). [cockroachdb/cockroach#99403][#99403]
- Added badges for each selected filter on the [SQL Activity page](../v22.2/ui-overview.html#sql-activity) and the [Insights page](../v22.2/ui-insights-page.html). [#101138][#101138]
- The data on the [Statement Fingerprints](../v22.2/ui-statements-page.html#statement-fingerprints-view) page no longer refreshes every 5 minutes. [cockroachdb/cockroach#101102][#101102]
- The default request sort for the [Statement fingerprints](../v22.2/ui-statements-page.html#statement-fingerprints-view) overview page is now **'% of All Runtime'** [#101102][#101102]
- Added a warning for when a user selects a sorting column on tables on the [Statements page](../v22.2/ui-statements-page.html) and [Transactions page](../v22.2/ui-transactions-page.html) that were not the originally selected sorting column in the search criteria, so they know they are looking at a subset of the data. [cockroachdb/cockroach#101167][#101167]
- Some of the names of sort labels on **Search Criteria** headings on the [Statements page](../v22.2/ui-statements-page.html) and the [Transactions page](../v22.2/ui-transactions-page.html) were not a match for the column name in the resulting tables, which could cause confusion. This change updates the values of "P99" to "P99 Latency" and "Service Latency" to "Statement time" and "Transaction time". [cockroachdb/cockroach#101167][#101167]
- By default, CockroachDB now shows the **Application Name** column on the [Statement Fingerprints](../v22.2/ui-statements-page.html#statement-fingerprints-view) and [Transaction Fingerprints](../v22.2/ui-transactions-page.html#transaction-fingerprints-view) overview pages. Statement fingerprints and transaction fingerprints will now be displayed per application on the overview pages rather than grouped into a single fingerprint ID. [#101475][#101475]
- When going from the [Statement Fingerprint](../v22.2/ui-statements-page.html#statement-fingerprints-view) or [Transaction Fingerprint](../v22.2/ui-transactions-page.html#transaction-fingerprints-view) overview pages, or the [Insights](../v22.2/ui-insights-page.html) details pages to the fingerprint details page, the details page will fetch data for the statement with the provided application name. For the fingerprint overview pages, this is the app name of the selected row. For the insight details page, it is the app name of the statement execution that generated the insight. [#101475][#101475]

<h3 id="v22-2-9-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug where running [`ALTER TABLE ... DROP COLUMN ... CASCADE`](../v22.2/alter-table.html#drop-column) when that column is used in an [index](../v23.1/indexes.html) that includes other columns caused a panic. [#100956][#100956]
- Fixed a bug whereby some tables' physical disk space usage could not be calculated by [the storage engine](../v22.2/architecture/storage-layer.html). [cockroachdb/cockroach#100953][#100953]
- Fixed a bug that caused suboptimal query plans to be generated by [the optimizer](../v22.2/cost-based-optimizer.html) when the table being queried contained infinite values, e.g., `'+Infinity'::DECIMAL`. This bug was present since v22.1 (and likely earlier). It could also be triggered in rare cases when [table statistics](../v22.2/show-statistics.html) forecasts created a forecasted bucket with an infinite value. [#101133][#101133]
- Fixed a bug so that the `crdb_internal.deserialize_session` internal function works properly with prepared statements that have more param type hints than params. Before this bugfix, deserializing a [session](../v22.2/show-sessions.html) containing a prepared statement with more parameter type hints than parameters would panic. For example: `PREPARE p (int) AS SELECT 1`. These extra type hints are now ignored by `crdb_internal.deserialize_session`. [cockroachdb/cockroach#101365][#101365]
- Fixed a rare bug with distributed plans shutdown that could make the [draining of CockroachDB nodes](../v22.2/node-shutdown.html) keep retrying indefinitely. If you see messages in the logs like `drain details: distSQL execution flows:` with a non-zero number of flows that isn't going down over a long period of time, the drain process for your cluster is affected by this bug. The bug had been present since before v22.1. [cockroachdb/cockroach#100840][#100840]
- Fixed a rare condition that could allow a [transaction](../v22.2/transactions.html) to get stuck indefinitely waiting on a released row-level [lock](../v22.2/architecture/transaction-layer.html#concurrency-control) if the per-range lock count limit was exceeded while the transaction was waiting on another lock. [cockroachdb/cockroach#100945][#100945]
- Fixed a bug in [the optimizer](../v22.2/cost-based-optimizer.html) that could cause an internal error in rare cases for a query with [outer joins](../v22.2/joins.html#full-outer-joins) that could be simplified to non-outer joins and at least one semi-join. This bug was present since sometime before the v22.1 release. [cockroachdb/cockroach#100668][#100668]
- Fixed a bug in [the optimizer](../v22.2/cost-based-optimizer.html) that could cause queries containing a [subquery](../v22.2/subqueries.html) with a [lateral join](../v22.2/joins.html#lateral-joins), in which the right side of the lateral join was an [aliased data source](../v22.2/table-expressions.html#aliased-table-expressions), to return an internal error in some cases. For example, it could cause an error if the subquery was provided as an argument to an [aggregate function](../v22.2/functions-and-operators.html#aggregate-functions). This bug was introduced in v22.2.0. [cockroachdb/cockroach#101862][#101862]
- Fixed a bug where CockroachDB was incorrectly evaluating [`EXPORT`](../v22.2/export.html) statements that had projections or rendering on top of the `EXPORT` (e.g., the [common table expression](../v22.2/common-table-expressions.html) `WITH cte AS (EXPORT INTO CSV 'nodelocal://1/export1/' FROM SELECT * FROM t) SELECT filename FROM cte;`). Such statements would result in panics or incorrect query results. Note that the exported data wasn't affected, only the presentation of the query result to the user. This bug had been present since v22.1 or earlier. [#101807][#101807]
- Fixed a bug where [`RESTORE`](../v22.2/restore.html) statements passed [the `skip_localities_check` option](../v22.2/restore.html#skip-localities-check) would still fail with errors if [regions](../v22.2/show-regions.html) were missing from the cluster. [cockroachdb/cockroach#101893][#101893]
- Fixed a very rare bug in [the storage engine](../v22.2/architecture/storage-layer.html) that could cause keys to be unexpectedly deleted locally within [a store](../v22.2/cockroach-start.html#flags-store) by [replica rebalancing](../v22.2/architecture/replication-layer.html) during a write heavy workload. [cockroachdb/cockroach#102176][#102176]
- Fixed a bug where CockroachDB's [pgwire](../v22.2/postgresql-compatibility.html) implementation would incorrectly parse [arrays](../v22.2/array.html) if they were sent as placeholder arguments to a prepared statement, and the argument had spaces in between the array elements. [cockroachdb/cockroach#102140][#102140]
- Fixed a potential bug whereby a failed or cancelled [`IMPORT`](../v22.2/import.html) could leave some of the imported rows behind after it was cancelled, in the rare event that the writing processes were slow enough to continue writing after the cleanup process had started. [#101444][#101444]
- Fixed an `Uncaught TypeError` that could occur on the [Insights Page](../v22.2/ui-insights-page.html) in the [DB Console](../v22.2/ui-overview.html). [cockroachdb/cockroach#102381][#102381]
- Fixed a bug where a [backup](../v22.2/backup-and-restore-overview.html) with a key's revision history split across multiple [SST files](../v22.2/architecture/storage-layer.html#ssts) may not have correctly restored the proper revision of the key in all cases. [cockroachdb/cockroach#102363][#102363]
- Previously, CockroachDB could encounter a "command is too large" error when evaluating [`UPSERT`](../v22.2/upsert.html) statements such that the new values combined exceeded the size of the `kv.raft.command.max_size` [cluster setting](../v22.2/cluster-settings.html). This bug had been present since before v21.1 and initially all write operations ([`INSERT`](../v22.2/insert.html), [`UPDATE`](../v22.2/update.html), [`DELETE`](../v22.2/delete.html)) were affected; however, in v21.2 those three were fixed, but `UPSERT` was forgotten about. This is now fixed. [#102515][#102515]
- Fixed a bug introduced in v22.1.19, v22.2.8, and pre-release versions of v23.1 that could cause queries to return spurious insufficient [privilege](../v22.2/security-reference/authorization.html#privileges) errors. For the bug to occur, two databases would need to have duplicate tables, each with a [foreign key](../v22.2/foreign-key.html) reference to another table. The error would occur if the same SQL string was executed against both databases concurrently by users that each had privileges over only one of the tables. [cockroachdb/cockroach#102652][#102652]
- Fixed a bug where [`ALTER TABLE ... RENAME COLUMN`](../v22.2/alter-table.html#rename-column) was incorrectly allowed on internal system columns such as [`crdb_internal_mvcc_timestamp`](../v22.2/bulk-delete-data.html#batch-delete-on-a-non-indexed-column). [cockroachdb/cockroach#102644][#102644]
- Fixed a bug where the [`ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGES ... GRANT USAGE ON SEQUENCES`](../v22.2/alter-default-privileges.html) statement would fail because the [sequence](../v22.2/serial.html) object was mapped to an incorrect internal privilege object. [#102730][#102730]

<h3 id="v22-2-9-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- This change adds an opt-in pacing mechanism to [rangefeed](../v22.2/create-and-configure-changefeeds.html#enable-rangefeeds) closed timestamp notifications. Pacing is controlled by the `kv.rangefeed.closed_timestamp_smear_interval` [cluster setting](../v22.2/cluster-settings.html), which defaults to the value of `kv.rangefeed.closed_timestamp_refresh_interval`. Lowering the smear interval can be used to make rangefeed closed timestamp delivery less spikey, which ultimately reduces its impact on foreground SQL query latencies. [#99945][#99945]
- Queries that have [subqueries](../v22.2/subqueries.html) in equality expressions are now more efficiently planned by [the optimizer](../v22.2/cost-based-optimizer.html) when the `optimizer_hoist_uncorrelated_equality_subqueries` [session setting](../v22.2/set-vars.html) is set to `true`. [#101744][#101744]

<h3 id="v22-2-9-build-changes">Build changes</h3>

- A binary called "Cypress" used by the UI end-to-end testing framework is now only downloaded and installed when those tests are run, instead of being eagerly downloaded on all platforms at build time. This restores the ability for non-{Windows, Darwin, Linux} platforms like FreeBSD and IllumOS to build CockroachDB without modifications, which broke in the initial v22.2 release. [cockroachdb/cockroach#93803][#93803]

<div class="release-note-contributors" markdown="1">

<h3 id="v22-2-9-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 73 merged PRs by 38 authors.

</div>

[#100474]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/100474
[#100668]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/100668
[#100840]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/100840
[#100843]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/100843
[#100945]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/100945
[#100949]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/100949
[#100953]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/100953
[#100956]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/100956
[#101093]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/101093
[#101102]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/101102
[#101133]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/101133
[#101138]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/101138
[#101167]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/101167
[#101365]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/101365
[#101444]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/101444
[#101475]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/101475
[#101684]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/101684
[#101744]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/101744
[#101807]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/101807
[#101862]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/101862
[#101876]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/101876
[#101893]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/101893
[#102140]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/102140
[#102176]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/102176
[#102273]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/102273
[#102363]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/102363
[#102381]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/102381
[#102515]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/102515
[#102644]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/102644
[#102652]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/102652
[#102730]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/102730
[#93638]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/93638
[#93803]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/93803
[#99403]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/99403
[#99945]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/99945
