## v22.2.11

Release Date: June 27, 2023

{% include releases/release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v22-2-11-security-updates">Security updates</h3>

- There is a new `server.client_cert_expiration_cache.capacity` [cluster setting](../v22.2/cluster-settings.html) which, when set to a non-zero number, makes it so that the minimum time-until-expiration of the set of client certificates seen is stored (for every user). This setting can be used to ensure client cert expirations are exported as a metric (if set to zero, the metric `security.certificate.expiration.client` will have a value of zero). [#104209][#104209]

<h3 id="v22-2-11-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- Added a new session variable `allow_role_memberships_to_change_during_transaction`  which can be used to make the [granting](../v22.2/grant.html) and [revoking](../v22.2/revoke.html) of [role memberships](../v22.2/security-reference/authorization.html#roles) faster at the cost of some [isolation](../v22.2/architecture/transaction-layer.html#isolation-levels) claims. By default, when granting or revoking a role from another role, CockroachDB waits for all [transactions](../v22.2/transactions.html) that are consulting the current set of role memberships to complete. This means that by the time the transaction which performed the grant or revoke operation returns successfully, the user has a proof that no ongoing transaction is relying on the state that existed prior to the change. The downside of this waiting is that it means that `GRANT` and `REVOKE` will take longer than the longest currently executing transaction. In some cases, users do not care about whether concurrent transactions will immediately see the side-effects of the operation, and would instead prefer that the grant or revoke finish rapidly. In order to aid in those cases, the session variable `allow_role_memberships_to_change_during_transaction` has been added. Now, the grant or revoke will only need to wait for the completion of statements in [sessions](../v22.2/show-sessions.html) which do not have this option set. One can set the option as enabled by default in all sessions in order to accelerate and grant and revoke role operations. [#103847][#103847]
- [`SHOW GRANTS`](../v22.2/show-grants.html) now lists not just privileges explicitly granted to each role, but also roles which inherit from those. `SHOW GRANTS ON ROLE` statements no longer require any privileges, and also list implicit grantees. [#104589][#104589]
- Users with the `MODIFYCLUSTERSETTING` [system-level privilege](../v22.2/security-reference/authorization.html#privileges) will no longer be able to view non `sql.defaults.*` settings if the [cluster setting](../v22.2/cluster-settings.html) `sql.full_modify_cluster_setting.enabled` is set to `false`. [#104231][#104231]

<h3 id="v22-2-11-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- Added a new debug tool to allow for decrypting files in a store using [encryption-at-rest](../v22.2/security-reference/encryption.html). This tool is intended for use while debugging, or for providing debug artifacts to Cockroach Labs to aid with support investigations. It is intended to be run "in-situ" (i.e., on site), as it prevents having to move sensitive key material. [#104091][#104091]
- Added a new command that can be used by an operator to list the files present in the [encryption-at-rest](../v22.2/security-reference/encryption.html) file registry. [#104091][#104091]
- Added a new [metric](../v22.2/metrics.html) `leases.liveness` that shows the number of [liveness range](../v22.2/configure-replication-zones.html#create-a-replication-zone-for-a-system-range) leases per node (generally 1 or 0) to track the liveness range leaseholder. [#104077][#104077]
- The new a gauge metric `sql.conns_waiting_to_hash` counts the number of connection attempts that are being limited due to the number of concurrent password hashing operations. This behavior has been present since v21.2 to [prevent password hashing from increasing CPU load](../v22.2/error-handling-and-troubleshooting.html#high-client-cpu-load-connection-pool-exhaustion-or-increased-connection-latency-when-scram-password-based-authentication-is-enabled). The metric is expected to be `0`, or close to `0`, in a healthy setup. If the metric is consistently high and connection latencies are high, then an operator should do one or more of the following:
    - Ensure applications using the cluster have properly configured [connection pools](../v22.2/connection-pooling.html).
    - Add more vCPU or more nodes to the cluster.
    - Increase the password hashing concurrency using the `COCKROACH_MAX_PW_HASH_COMPUTE_CONCURRENCY` [environment variable](../v22.2/cockroach-commands.html#environment-variables). [#104441][#104441]
- CockroachDB now uses response data rather than just the request span in the [load-based splitter](../v22.2/load-based-splitting.html) to pass more accurate data about the keys iterated over to the load splitter to find a suitable split key, enabling the load splitter to find a split key under heavy range query workloads. [#104563][#104563]
- Added observability for when [load-based splitting](../v22.2/load-based-splitting.html) cannot find a key to indicate the reasons why the load splitter could not find a split key, enabling us to have more observability and insight to debug why a [range](../v22.2/architecture/overview.html#architecture-range) is not splitting more easily. [#104563][#104563]

<h3 id="v22-2-11-command-line-changes">Command-line changes</h3>

- Failures during descriptor validity checks during [cluster upgrades](../v22.2/upgrade-cockroach-version.html) are now more detailed in [redacted logs](../v22.2/configure-logs.html#redact-logs). [#104048][#104048]

<h3 id="v22-2-11-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- The [database details page](../v22.2/ui-databases-page.html) now supports a large number of tables for a single database. Sorting will be disabled if more than 40 tables are present in a database. [#103860][#103860]
- Added metrics for merge queue failures and merge queue processing time to the `Queue Processing Failures` and `Queue Processing Times` charts on the [Queues Dashboard](../v22.2/ui-queues-dashboard.html). [#104033][#104033]
- Added more search criteria options to the [SQL Activity page](../v22.2/ui-sessions-page.html).
    - For *Top*: `1000`, `5000`, and `10000`. 
    - For *By* on the **Statements** tab: Last Execution Time, Max Memory, Network, Retries, Rows Processed.
    - For *By* on the **Transactions** tab: Max Memory, Network, Retries, Rows Processed. [#104056][#104056]
- Added a *Created SQL Connections* chart to the [Metrics page](../v22.2/ui-overview.html) and the [SQL Dashboard](../v22.2/ui-sql-dashboard.html). [#104070][#104070]
- Added a new link  on the [Range Status page](../v22.2/ui-debug-pages.html) that opens the **Enqueue Ranges** page with the node ID already filled in. [#104099][#104099]
- On the [**Active Executions** table of the Transactions page](../v22.2/ui-transactions-page.html#active-executions-table), transaction status will be 'Idle' if the executing transaction is not currently executing a statement. Previously, it would have had a status of 'Executing'. [#104333][#104333]
- Added a warning to the [DB Console overview page](../v22.2/ui-overview.html) when all nodes are running on a new version of CockroachDB, but the [cluster upgrade](../v22.2/upgrade-cockroach-version.html) is not finalized. [#104878][#104878]

<h3 id="v22-2-11-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- [`DROP ROLE`](../v22.2/drop-role.html) now correctly returns the error code `2BP01` when the given [role](../v22.2/security-reference/authorization.html#roles) has been granted [privileges](../v22.2/security-reference/authorization.html#managing-privileges) on a [schema](../v22.2/schema-design-overview.html). [#103545][#103545]
- Fixed a bug whereby disk space used by deleted and garbage collected data would not be reclaimed in a timely manner by the [storage engine](../v22.2/architecture/storage-layer.html), especially when a [store](../v22.2/cockroach-start.html#store) had low write workload. [#103867][#103867]
- Fixed a problem that could lead to erroneously refused [lease transfers](../v22.2/architecture/replication-layer.html#leases) with the error message: `"refusing to transfer lease to [...] because target may need a Raft snapshot: replica in StateProbe"`. [#103877][#103877]
- Fixed a bug where [`cockroach node status`](../v22.2/cockroach-node.html#node-status) could incorrectly report nodes as `is_live = false` in v22.1/v22.2 mixed-version clusters. The bug still exists between v22.2 patch versions before and after v22.2.3. [#103788][#103788]
- Fixed a bug whereby running a debug command that manipulates a [store](../v22.2/cockroach-start.html#store) (e.g., `cockroach debug compact`) without first terminating the node using the store could result in corruption of the node's store if [encryption-at-rest](../v22.2/security-reference/encryption.html) was enabled. [#103959][#103959]
- Fixed a bug where [`SHOW DEFAULT PRIVILEGES`](../v22.2/show-default-privileges.html) did not work correctly if the database name or schema name being inspected had upper-case or special characters. [#103951][#103951]
- Fixed a bug that could cause queries with [joins](../v23.1/joins.html) or [subqueries](../v23.1/subqueries.html) to omit rows where column values are `NULL` in very rare cases. This bug was present since v20.2. [#104073][#104073]
- Fixed a bug that could cause goroutines to hang during [SCRAM authentication](../v23.1/security-reference/scram-authentication.html). [#104196][#104196]
- Fixed a bug which could cause nodes in a CockroachDB cluster to terminate with the following message: `server startup failed: cockroach server exited with error: ‹migration-job-find-already-completed›: key range id:X is unavailable: ‹failed to send RPC: no replica node information available via gossip for rX›`. [#104250][#104250]
- Fixed a rare bug where stale multi-column table [statistics](../v23.1/cost-based-optimizer.html) could cause table statistics forecasts to be inaccurate, leading to non-optimal query plans. [#104241][#104241]
- Fixed a bug that caused incorrect results to return in cases where predicates on [computed columns](../v22.2/computed-columns.html) are derived when an `OR`ed predicate on a column in the computed column expression is present. This bug only affects CockroachDB when the [session setting](../v22.2/set-vars.html#supported-variables) `optimizer_use_improved_computed_column_filters_derivation` is `true`. This setting defaults to `false` in releases v22.1.10 and v23.1.2. This bug does not affect releases prior to v22.1.10 and v23.1.2. [#104289][#104289]
- Fixed a rare race condition that could allow large [`RESTORE`](../v22.2/restore.html)s to fail with the error message `unable to find store`. [#100957][#100957]
- Fixed a bug which would cause [`CREATE FUNCTION`](../v22.2/create-function.html) (which uses the `setval` [builtin function](../v22.2/functions-and-operators.html#sequence-functions)) to panic. [#104408][#104408]
- Fixed a [Postgres wire protocol (pgwire)](../v22.2/postgresql-compatibility.html) bug where CockroachDB would not ignore the messages that it should if there was an error while in the pgwire extended protocol. [#104505][#104505]
- The `sys.cpu.combined.percent-normalized` metric now uses `GOMAXPROCS` when calculating CPU utilization (if lower than the number of CPU shares). [#104498][#104498]
- Fixed an issue where `admin` or `root` user [privileges](../v22.2/security-reference/authorization.html#managing-privileges) were required to use [`SHOW SYSTEM GRANTS`](../v22.2/show-system-grants.html). [#104735][#104735]
- Fixed a bug where the column selector on the [Jobs page](../v22.2/ui-jobs-page.html) was getting cut. [#104737][#104737]
- Fixed a bug that could prevent [`RESTORE`](../v22.2/restore.html) from working if the backup had a refresh [materialized view](../v22.2/views.html#materialized-views) mutation in it. [#103231][#103231]
- Fixed a bug where CockroachDB was double-counting disk read/write bytes in disk metrics in volumes that were likely to be duplicated in reported disk counters, such as RAID logical vs physical volumes. [#104807][#104807]
- Fixed a bug where transient failures could occur during [upgrades](../v22.2/upgrade-cockroach-version.html) if a table/view were dropped while the internal upgrade step "upgrade sequences to be referenced by ID" was executing. [#104903][#104903]
- Fixed a bug in [upstream etcd/raft](https://github.com/etcd-io/raft) which could result in pulling unlimited amounts of log into memory and lead to out-of-memory (OOM) situations. With the fix, the log scan has a limited memory footprint. [#104956][#104956]
- Fixed a bug where SQL queries could return unexpected errors when a SQL row was split across two [ranges](../v22.2/architecture/overview.html#architecture-range). This bug is resolved, as we now inspect the real keys, rather than just request keys to determine [load-based](../v22.2/load-based-splitting.html) split points. [#104563][#104563]
- Updated the [DB Console](../v22.2/ui-overview.html) to show more precision in small percentage values on the percentage bars. [#105077][#105077]
- Fixed a bug where [`SHOW BACKUP`](../v22.2/show-backup.html) would fail to show a [locality-aware backup](../v22.2/take-and-restore-locality-aware-backups.html) that contained [incremental backups](../v22.2/take-full-and-incremental-backups.html#incremental-backups). [#103830][#103830]

<h3 id="v22-2-11-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- If the [session setting](../v22.2/set-vars.html#supported-variables) [`transaction_rows_read_err`](../v22.2/transactions.html#limit-the-number-of-rows-written-or-read-in-a-transaction) is set to a non-zero value, we now ensure that any single scan never reads more than `transaction_rows_read_err`+1 rows. This prevents transactions that would error due to the `transaction_rows_read_err` setting from causing a large performance overhead due to large scans. For some queries in rare cases this change may end up disabling cross-range parallelism of the scan operation which can result in increased query latency. [#104368][#104368]

<div class="release-note-contributors" markdown="1">

<h3 id="v22-2-11-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 85 merged PRs by 36 authors.

</div>

[#100957]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/100957
[#103231]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/103231
[#103545]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/103545
[#103788]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/103788
[#103830]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/103830
[#103847]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/103847
[#103860]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/103860
[#103867]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/103867
[#103877]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/103877
[#103951]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/103951
[#103959]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/103959
[#104033]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/104033
[#104048]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/104048
[#104056]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/104056
[#104070]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/104070
[#104073]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/104073
[#104077]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/104077
[#104091]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/104091
[#104099]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/104099
[#104196]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/104196
[#104209]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/104209
[#104231]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/104231
[#104241]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/104241
[#104250]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/104250
[#104289]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/104289
[#104333]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/104333
[#104368]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/104368
[#104408]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/104408
[#104441]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/104441
[#104498]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/104498
[#104505]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/104505
[#104563]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/104563
[#104589]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/104589
[#104735]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/104735
[#104737]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/104737
[#104807]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/104807
[#104878]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/104878
[#104903]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/104903
[#104956]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/104956
[#105077]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/105077
