## May 2, 2022

<h3>Console changes</h3>

- Added **Distributed execution** and **Vectorized execution** information to the **Overview** tab of the **Statement Details** page.
- Added `FULL SCAN` information to the **Explain plan** tab of the **Statement Details** page.
- Users without accounts can now accept invitations by creating a user using SSO-based authorization such as GitHub.
- Timeseries charts are now displayed in UTC.

<h3>Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed broken links to the **Statement Details** page from the **Advanced Debug** and **Sessions** pages.
- Fixed a bug where regenerating a SQL user password would fail with a duplicate user warning.
- Deleted clusters will no longer be visible after they've been deleted. Previously, a full page refresh was needed to update the **Clusters** page.
- Fixed a bug that caused charges on the **Cluster overview** page to show an error state for users with the Developer role. Cluster charges are now hidden for Developers and only available to users with the Admin role.
- Fixed a bug where adding decimals to a {{ site.data.products.serverless }} cluster's spend limit would cause an error, but the spend limit could still be set.
- Fixed a bug where opening or closing the list of nodes on a multi-node {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster's **Cluster overview** page would result in a duplicated row of nodes.
- Fixed a bug for credit card users where the credit card form was occasionally loading as a blank box. Now, the credit card form will always load properly without needing to refresh the page.

