## December 5, 2022

<h3> Console changes </h3>

- {{ site.data.products.serverless }} clusters now have a [**Metrics** page](../{{site.versions["stable"]}}/ui-custom-chart-debug-page.html) in the Console with charts to **Monitor SQL Activity** and **Identify SQL Problems**.
- The `p99.9` and `p99.99` latencies are now shown in the `SQL Connection Latency` and `SQL Statement Latency` charts on the [**Metrics** page](../{{site.versions["stable"]}}/ui-custom-chart-debug-page.html) for {{ site.data.products.serverless }} clusters.
- The **Last used** column on the [**Table Details** page](../cockroachcloud/databases-page.html) now uses the UTC timezone.
- The {{ site.data.products.serverless }} [**Cost estimator**](../cockroachcloud/serverless-cluster-management.html#estimate-usage-cost) has been temporarily disabled while a bug is being fixed.

<h3> Cloud API changes </h3>

- A preview of [log export](../cockroachcloud/export-logs.html) for {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} users is now available. To enroll your organization in the preview, contact your Cockroach Labs account team.

<h3> Bug fixes </h3>

- Trial coupon limits for {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters' storage and compute are now enforced in the [**Edit cluster**](../cockroachcloud/cluster-management.html) dialog.
- Fixed a bug where [backups](../cockroachcloud/use-managed-service-backups.html) shown for a particular day included backups for midnight on the following day.
- Fixed a bug  on the [**Databases page**](../cockroachcloud/databases-page.html) where the number of index recommendations displayed for a database was inconsistent with the actual number of index recommendations for the database.
- Fixed a bug that could break the [**Databases page**](../cockroachcloud/databases-page.html) when fetching index usage statistics for databases.

