## February 6, 2023

<h3> General changes </h3>

- The following features are now available for {{ site.data.products.serverless }} clusters running CockroachDB [v22.2.0](v22.2.html) or later:
  - [Query cancellation](../{{site.current_cloud_version}}/cancel-query.html#considerations) using the PostgreSQL wire protocol (pgwire).
  - [`EXPLAIN ANALYZE`](../{{site.versions["stable"]}}/explain-analyze.html) now gives an estimate of the [Request Units (RUs)](../cockroachcloud/learn-about-request-units.html) consumed by a query.
  - All {{ site.data.products.serverless }} users can now use cloud storage for [`IMPORT`](../{{site.versions["stable"]}}/import.html), [`BACKUP`](../{{site.versions["stable"]}}/backup.html), and [change data capture (CDC)](../{{site.versions["stable"]}}/change-data-capture-overview.html) without entering billing information.
  - [`SHOW RANGES`](../{{site.versions["stable"]}}/show-ranges.html) is now supported on {{ site.data.products.serverless }}.
  - The [GC TTL](../{{site.versions["stable"]}}/configure-replication-zones.html#gc-ttlseconds) for deleted values is lowered from 24 hours to 1 hour and 15 minutes.

<h3> Console changes </h3>

- {{ site.data.products.serverless }} clusters' regions are now displayed on the [**Cluster Overview** page](../cockroachcloud/cluster-overview-page.html) and [**Clusters** page](../cockroachcloud/serverless-cluster-management.html#view-clusters-page).
- The links in the sidebar navigation of the [**Cluster Overview**](../cockroachcloud/cluster-overview-page.html) page have been reorganized into sections under relevant headers.
- For {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters, the **Monitoring** page is now called the [**Tools** page](../cockroachcloud/monitoring-page.html) and is located in the **Monitoring** section of the sidebar.

<h3> Cloud API changes </h3>

- Support for [Customer-Managed Encryption Keys (CMEK)](../cockroachcloud/cmek.html) has been added to the [{{ site.data.products.db }} Terraform Provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/cockroachdb/cockroach/latest). Contact your Cockroach Labs account team to enroll in the CMEK preview.
- When [using Terraform to provision {{ site.data.products.db }} clusters](../cockroachcloud/provision-a-cluster-with-terraform.html), you can now manage [database connections](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/cockroachdb/cockroach/latest/docs/data-sources/connection_string) and [SSL certificates](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/cockroachdb/cockroach/latest/docs/data-sources/cluster_cert) directly in your Terraform workflow.
- The Cloud API now provides [formatted connection string information](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/api/cloud/v1.html#get-/api/v1/clusters/-cluster_id-/connection-string).

<h3> Security updates </h3>

- {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} is now [compliant with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS)](../{{site.versions["stable"]}}/security-reference/security-overview.html). To learn more about achieving PCI DSS compliance with {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}, contact your Cockroach Labs account team.
- [Cloud Organization Single Sign-On (SSO)](../cockroachcloud/cloud-org-sso.html#cloud-organization-sso) is now available to all {{ site.data.products.db }} users.
- For {{ site.data.products.db }} organizations enrolled in the [Customer-managed Encryption Key (CMEK)](../cockroachcloud/cmek.html) preview, note that the following conditions must now be met before enabling CMEK for a {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster:
    - The cluster must be running CockroachDB [v22.2.0](v22.2.html) or later.
    - The cluster must have been created as a [private cluster](../cockroachcloud/private-clusters.html). To create a private cluster, your organization  must be enrolled in the private cluster preview, which is separate from the CMEK preview. Contact your Cockroach Labs account team to enroll in both previews.
- For {{ site.data.products.db }} organizations enrolled in the [Egress Perimeter Controls](../cockroachcloud/egress-perimeter-controls.html) preview, note that {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters must have been created as [private clusters](../cockroachcloud/private-clusters.html) in order to enable Egress Perimeter Controls. To create a private cluster, your organization  must be enrolled in the private cluster preview, which is separate from the Egress Perimeter Controls preview. Contact your Cockroach Labs account team to enroll in both previews.

<h3> Bug fixes </h3>

-  Fixed a bug where users granted the [Developer role](../cockroachcloud/console-access-management.html#developer) in a {{ site.data.products.db }} organization incorrectly had certain permissions for any cluster in the organization. Refer to [this technical advisory](../advisories/c20230118.html) for more information.

