## May 1, 2023

<h3> General changes </h3>

The following changes were made to {{ site.data.products.serverless }} for **new organizations** created on or after April 26, 2023. **Existing organizations will not be affected until August 1, 2023**.

- The price of [Request Units (RUs)](../cockroachcloud/learn-about-request-units.html) increased from $1 per 10M RU to $2 per 10M RUs.
- The price of [storage](../cockroachcloud/architecture.html#storage) decreased from $1 per 1 GiB storage to $0.50 per 1 GiB storage.
- Free resources are allocated on a per-organization basis instead of a per-cluster basis. All organizations will now receive 50M Request Units per month and 10 GiB of storage for free.
- All resources are available instantly at the beginning of each month (burst and baseline RUs are now deprecated).
- You can now [set separate RU and storage limits](../cockroachcloud/serverless-cluster-management.html#edit-your-resource-limits) for your clusters, or set a spend limit that will be divided between resources automatically.
- You can now [set unlimited resources](../cockroachcloud/serverless-cluster-management.html#edit-your-resource-limits) for a cluster so your workload is never restricted.
- Organizations on the free plan will have at most one free Serverless cluster (instead of the previous limit of five free clusters). **We will continue to maintain all existing free clusters with the new organization-level free resources**. 
- Organizations can now create 200 Serverless clusters instead of the previous limit of five total clusters.

For an in-depth explanation of {{ site.data.products.serverless }} pricing, see [Learn About Pricing](../cockroachcloud/learn-about-pricing.html). For any questions or concerns, please [contact us](https://cockroachlabs.com/support).

<h3> Console changes </h3>

- {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} users can now [use the Cloud Console for full-cluster restores](../cockroachcloud/use-managed-service-backups.html?filters=dedicated#restore-a-cluster).
- The [**Access Management** page](../cockroachcloud/manage-access.html) in the Cloud Console now only shows content relevant to

<h3> Cloud API changes </h3>

- Cloud API responses now contain a header called `Cc-Trace-Id` that can be given to [Support](https://cockroachlabs.com/support) for diagnostics.
- The `CreateCluster` and `UpdateCluster` methods now support setting individual monthly limits for a cluster's [Request Units](../cockroachcloud/architecture.html#request-unit-ru) and [storage](../cockroachcloud/architecture.html#storage) usage.
- Organization user role assignment API - Please refer security updates below.
- SCIM API - Please refer security updates below.
- CA certificate upload API - Please refer security updates below.

<h3> Security updates </h3>

- We’ve released a major update to the authorization model in CockroachDB Cloud organizations, including cluster-level roles and making access management consistent across users and service accounts.

  - The new roles are Cluster Creator, Cluster Admin, Cluster Developer and Organization Member (default new role for every new user).
  - The capability is in limited access and can be enabled on request for your cloud organization. You can assign the new roles to both users and service accounts using the Cloud UI or API or Terraform Provider. 
  - We plan to deprecate the existing legacy roles during a future release when we’ll release relevant replacement roles that conform to least privilege principle. After that you’ll have six months to move all users and service accounts to the new roles.

- You can now use the new SCIM API to automated the provisioning and de-provisioning of users in your CockroachDB Cloud organization. SCIM is a open standard for integration modern identity providers and service providers. We’ve implemented the service provider specific API for CockroachDB Cloud, so customers using SCIM-supporting identity providers like Okta, Azure Active Directory etc. can simplify user provisioning and de-provisioning. 

  - The capability is in limited access and can be enabled on request for your cloud organization. Though it is dependent on the updated authorization model mentioned above, so that has to be enabled as well for your cloud organization in order for you to use SCIM API.
  - With this functionality, customers can also assign groups to SCIM applications in their identity providers, which are then auto-provisioned as groups of users in the CockroachDB Cloud organization. Though, the groups in the cloud organization are read-only i.e. those can only be edited from within the identity provider to push down any changes to the cloud organization.
  
- Your teams can now use Client Certificates to authenticate to their CockroachDB dedicated clusters. As the first step of the workflow, a cluster admin needs to upload a CA certificate for the cluster using CockroachDB Cloud API or Terraform Provider. After that, individual users could be assigned their respective client certificates signed by that CA certificate, which they could use to connect to the  cluster. The capability is in limited access and can be enabled on request for your cloud organization. We are in the process of releasing documentation updates for this capability.

<h3> Bug fixes </h3>

- The cluster "connect" modal and databases list now respond significantly faster for clusters with over 100 databases. #12554)
- Reenable table and database restores on <22.2.7 #12636)

#### Changes without release note annotation

- [CC-24085] vault: cache azure creds
