Statements | SQL statement [fingerprint](ui-statements-page.html#sql-statement-fingerprints).<br><br>To view additional details, click the SQL statement fingerprint to open its [Statement Details page](ui-statements-page.html#statement-details-page).
Interval Start Time (UTC) | The time that the statement execution interval started.  For details, see [time interval](#time-interval). <br><br>By default, statements are configured to aggregate over an hour interval. For example, if a statement is executed at 1:23PM it will fall in the 1:00PM - 2:00PM time interval.
Execution Count | Cumulative number of executions of statements with this fingerprint within the last hour or specified [time interval](#time-interval). <br><br>The bar indicates the ratio of runtime success (gray) to [retries](transactions.html#transaction-retries) (red) for the SQL statement fingerprint.
Rows Read | Average number of rows [read from disk](architecture/life-of-a-distributed-transaction.html#reads-from-the-storage-layer) while executing statements with this fingerprint within the last hour or specified [time interval](#time-interval).<br><br>The gray bar indicates the mean number of rows returned. The blue bar indicates one standard deviation from the mean. Hover over the bar to display exact values.
Bytes Read | Aggregation of all bytes [read from disk](architecture/life-of-a-distributed-transaction.html#reads-from-the-storage-layer) across all operators for statements with this fingerprint within the last hour or specified [time interval](#time-interval). <br><br>The gray bar indicates the mean number of bytes read from disk. The blue bar indicates one standard deviation from the mean. Hover over the bar to display exact values.
Statement Time | Average [planning and execution time](architecture/sql-layer.html#sql-parser-planner-executor) of statements with this fingerprint within the last hour or specified [time interval](#time-interval). <br><br>The gray bar indicates the mean latency. The blue bar indicates one standard deviation from the mean. Hover over the bar to display exact values.
Contention | Average time statements with this fingerprint were [in contention](performance-best-practices-overview.html#understanding-and-avoiding-transaction-contention) with other transactions within the last hour or specified [time interval](#time-interval). <br><br>The gray bar indicates mean contention time. The blue bar indicates one standard deviation from the mean. Hover over the bar to display exact values.
Max Memory | Maximum memory used by a statement with this fingerprint at any time during its execution within the last hour or specified [time interval](#time-interval). <br><br>The gray bar indicates the average max memory usage. The blue bar indicates one standard deviation from the mean. Hover over the bar to display exact values.
Network | Amount of [data transferred over the network](architecture/reads-and-writes-overview.html) (e.g., between regions and nodes) for statements with this fingerprint within the last hour or specified [time interval](#time-interval). <br><br>If this value is 0, the statement was executed on a single node. <br><br>The gray bar indicates the mean number of bytes sent over the network. The blue bar indicates one standard deviation from the mean. Hover over the bar to display exact values.
Retries | Cumulative number of [retries](transactions.html#transaction-retries) of statements with this fingerprint within the last hour or specified [time interval](#time-interval).
% of All Runtime  | How much time this statement fingerprint took to execute compared to all other statements that were executed within the time period. It is expressed as a percentage. The runtime is the mean execution latency multiplied by the execution count.
