## v26.1.0

Release Date: TBD

With the release of CockroachDB v26.1, we've added new capabilities to help you migrate, build, and operate more efficiently.

{% comment %}
TODO: Update the feature highlights categories below once the final feature list is provided.
Current placeholder assumes categories may differ from v25.4.
{% endcomment %}

For a summary of the most significant changes, refer to [Feature Highlights](#v26-1-0-feature-highlights), which contains the following categories:

{% comment %}
TODO: Add category links here once features are provided, e.g.:
  - [SQL](#v26-1-0-sql)
  - [Security](#v26-1-0-security)
  - [Observability](#v26-1-0-observability)
  - [CockroachDB Cloud](#v26-1-0-cloud)
{% endcomment %}

Before [upgrading to CockroachDB v26.1]({% link v26.1/upgrade-cockroach-version.md %}), be sure to also review the following [Upgrade Details](#v26-1-0-upgrade-details):

  - [Backward-incompatible changes](#v26-1-0-backward-incompatible-changes)
  - [Features that require upgrade finalization](#v26-1-0-features-that-require-upgrade-finalization)
  - [Key cluster setting changes](#v26-1-0-key-cluster-setting-changes)
  - [Deprecations](#v26-1-0-deprecations)
  - [Known limitations](#v26-1-0-known-limitations)

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v26-1-0-feature-highlights">Feature Highlights</h3>

This section summarizes the most significant user-facing changes in v26.1.0 and other features recently made available to CockroachDB users across versions. For a complete list of features and changes in v26.1, including bug fixes and performance improvements, refer to the [release notes]({% link releases/index.md %}#testing-releases) for v26.1 testing releases. You can also search the docs for sections labeled [New in v26.1](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/search?query=New+in+v26.1).

<div id="feature-highlights">

{% comment %}
TODO: Add feature highlight tables here once draft Feature Highlights are provided.
Tables will be organized by category (e.g., SQL, Security, Observability, Cloud).
Each table should use pure HTML (no markdown="1") following the v25.4 format.
{% endcomment %}

{% include releases/v26.1/feature-detail-key.html %}

</div>

<h3 id="v26-1-0-upgrade-details">Upgrade Details</h3>

Before you upgrade, review these changes and other information about the new major version.

<a name="v26-1-0-backward-incompatible-changes"></a>

<h4 id="v26-1-0-backward-incompatible-changes">Backward-incompatible changes</h4>

{% include releases/v26.1/backward-incompatible.md %}

<a name="v26-1-0-features-that-require-upgrade-finalization"></a>

<h4 id="v26-1-0-features-that-require-upgrade-finalization">Features that require upgrade finalization</h4>

{% include releases/v26.1/upgrade-finalization.md %}

<a name="v26-1-0-cluster-settings"></a>

<h4 id="v26-1-0-key-cluster-setting-changes">Key cluster setting changes</h4>

{% include releases/v26.1/cluster-setting-changes.md %}

<a name="v26-1-0-deprecations"></a>

<h4 id="v26-1-0-deprecations">Deprecations</h4>

{% include releases/v26.1/deprecations.md %}

<h4 id="v26-1-0-known-limitations">Known limitations</h4>

For information about new and unresolved limitations in CockroachDB v26.1, with suggested workarounds where applicable, refer to [Known Limitations]({% link v26.1/known-limitations.md %}).
