 Option                     | Value                                   | Description
----------------------------+-----------------------------------------+------------------------------
`first_run`                 | [`TIMESTAMPTZ`](timestamp.html) / `now` | Execute the schedule at the specified time in the future. If not specified, the default behavior is to execute the schedule based on its next `RECURRING` time.
`on_execution_failure`      | `retry` / `reschedule` / `pause`        | If an error occurs during the backup execution, do the following: <ul><li>`retry`: Retry the backup right away.</li><li>`reschedule`: Retry the backup by rescheduling it based on the `RECURRING` expression.</li><li>`pause`: Pause the schedule. This requires manual intervention to [resume the schedule](resume-schedules.html).</li></ul><br>**Default**: `reschedule`
<a name="on-previous-running-option"></a>`on_previous_running`       | `start` / `skip` / `wait`               | If the previous backup started by the schedule is still running, do the following: <ul><li>`start`: Start the new backup anyway, even if the previous one is still running.</li><li>`skip`: Skip the new backup and run the next backup based on the `RECURRING` expression.</li><li>`wait`: Wait for the previous backup to complete.</li></ul><br>**Default**: `wait`
`ignore_existing_backups`   | N/A                                     | If backups were already created in the [destination](use-cloud-storage-for-bulk-operations.html) that the new schedule references, this option must be passed to acknowledge that the new schedule may be backing up different objects.
`updates_cluster_last_backup_time_metric` | N/A | (`admin` privileges required) When set on scheduled backup creation, this option updates the [`schedules_backup_last_completed_time`](backup-and-restore-monitoring.html#available-metrics) metric for the scheduled backup. This metric monitors for successfully completed scheduled backups.