Variable | Description
------|------------
`range_min_bytes` | The minimum size, in bytes, for a range of data in the zone. When a range is less than this size, CockroachDB will merge it with an adjacent range.<br><br>**Default:** `1048576` (1MiB)
`range_max_bytes` | The maximum size, in bytes, for a range of data in the zone. When a range reaches this size, CockroachDB will split it into two ranges.<br><br>**Default:** `67108864` (64MiB)
<a name="gc-ttlseconds"></a> `gc.ttlseconds` |  The number of seconds overwritten values will be retained before garbage collection. Smaller values can save disk space if values are frequently overwritten; larger values increase the range allowed for `AS OF SYSTEM TIME` queries, also know as [Time Travel Queries](select-clause.html#select-historical-data-time-travel).<br><br>It is not recommended to set this below `600` (10 minutes); doing so will cause problems for long-running queries. Also, since all versions of a row are stored in a single range that never splits, it is not recommended to set this so high that all the changes to a row in that time period could add up to more than 64MiB; such oversized ranges could contribute to the server running out of memory or other problems.<br><br>**Default:** `90000` (25 hours)
`num_replicas` | The number of replicas in the zone.<br><br>**Default:** `3`<br><br>For the `system` database and `.meta`, `.liveness`, and `.system` ranges, the default value is `5`.
`constraints` | An array of required (`+`) and/or prohibited (`-`) constraints influencing the location of replicas. See [Types of Constraints](configure-replication-zones.html#types-of-constraints) and [Scope of Constraints](configure-replication-zones.html#scope-of-constraints) for more details.<br/><br/>To prevent hard-to-detect typos, constraints placed on [store attributes and node localities](configure-replication-zones.html#descriptive-attributes-assigned-to-nodes) must match the values passed to at least one node in the cluster. If not, an error is signalled.<br/><br/>**Default:** No constraints, with CockroachDB locating each replica on a unique node and attempting to spread replicas evenly across localities.
`lease_preferences` | An ordered list of required and/or prohibited constraints influencing the location of [leaseholders](architecture/index.html#glossary).  Whether each constraint is required or prohibited is expressed with a leading `+` or `-`, respectively.  Note that lease preference constraints do not have to be shared with the `constraints` field.  For example, it's valid for your configuration to define a `lease_preferences` field that does not reference any values from the `constraints` field.  It's also valid to define a `lease_preferences` field with no `constraints` field at all. <br /><br />  If the first preference cannot be satisfied, CockroachDB will attempt to satisfy the second preference, and so on.  If none of the preferences can be met, the lease will be placed using the default lease placement algorithm, which is to base lease placement decisions on how many leases each node already has, trying to make all the nodes have around the same amount.<br /><br />Each value in the list can include multiple constraints.  For example, the list `[[+zone=us-east-1b, +ssd], [+zone=us-east-1a], [+zone=us-east-1c, +ssd]]` means "prefer nodes with an SSD in `us-east-1b`, then any nodes in `us-east-1a`, then nodes in `us-east-1c` with an SSD."<br /><br /> For a usage example, see [Constrain leaseholders to specific datacenters](configure-replication-zones.html#constrain-leaseholders-to-specific-datacenters).<br /><br />**Default**: No lease location preferences are applied if this field is not specified.
