cockroachcloud/architecture.md, before:

---
title: CockroachDB Cloud Architecture
summary: Learn more about CockroachDB Cloud architecture
toc: true
docs_area: reference.architecture
cloud: true
---

{{ site.data.products.db }} is a fully-managed deployment of CockroachDB. This page describes {{ site.data.products.db }}'s architecture and how it relates to CockroachDB.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
For an intro to CockroachDB's core architecture and capabilities, see [CockroachDB Architecture](../stable/architecture/overview.html) or take the free [Introduction to Distributed SQL and CockroachDB](https://university.cockroachlabs.com/courses/course-v1:crl+intro-to-distributed-sql-and-cockroachdb+self-paced/about) course on Cockroach University.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

{% include common/basic-terms.md %}

## {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}

If you need a single tenant cluster with no shared resources, we recommend {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}. {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} supports single and multi-region clusters in Amazon Web Services and Google Cloud Platform. {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} is recommended for all workloads: lightweight and critical production.

### Hardware

We use the Kubernetes offerings in AWS and GCP (EKS and GKE respectively) to run {{ site.data.products.db }} offerings. GCP clusters use [N1 standard](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/machine-types#n1_machine_types) machine types and [Persistent Disk storage](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/disks#pdspecs). AWS clusters use [M5 instance types](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/m5/#Product_Details) and [Elastic Block Store (EBS)](https://aws.amazon.com/ebs/features/). Each single-region cluster has a minimum of three nodes spread across three availability zones (AZ) in a cloud provider region. Multi-region clusters are similar to single-region clusters, with nodes spread across three or more AZs in each region.

### Security and Connection

{{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters are single tenant. This means each new cluster gets its own project in GCP or its own account in AWS. No two {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters share any resources with each other. Since these clusters are within their own accounts and projects, they are also in a default virtual private cloud (VPC). Users connect to a {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster by using a load balancer in front of each region which leads to one connection string per region. Unless you set up [VPC peering](network-authorization.html#vpc-peering) or [AWS PrivateLink](network-authorization.html#aws-privatelink), your cluster will use TLS 1.3 protocol for encrypting inter-node and client-node communication.

{{ site.data.products.db }} clusters also use digital certificates for inter-node authentication, [SSL modes](authentication.html#ssl-mode-settings) for node identity verification, and password authentication for client identity verification. See [Authentication](authentication.html) for more details.

[Backups](backups-page.html) are encrypted in S3 and GCS buckets using the cloud provider keys.

### Multi-region architecture

The diagram below shows a high-level representation of a {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} multi-region cluster:

<img src="{{ 'images/cockroachcloud/multiregion-diagram.png' | relative_url }}" alt="Multi-region architecture" style="width:100%; max-width:800px" />

## {{ site.data.products.serverless-plan }}

{{ site.data.products.serverless }} is a fully-managed, auto-scaling deployment of CockroachDB. Being familiar with the following concepts will help you understand our Serverless architecture. While {{ site.data.products.serverless }} is in beta, it is ideal for lightweight applications, starter projects, development environments, and proofs of concept.

### Architecture

{{ site.data.products.serverless }} is a managed multi-tenant deployment of CockroachDB. A Serverless cluster is an isolated, virtualized tenant running on a much larger physical CockroachDB deployment.

{{ site.data.products.serverless }} has separate compute and storage layers. The storage pods (KV pods) can be shared across users, and the compute pods (SQL pods) are unique to each user. These shared resources make {{ site.data.products.serverless }} architecture "multi-tenant," in contrast to the single tenant architecture of [{{ site.data.products.dedicated }}](?filters=dedicated#security-and-connection).

Traffic comes in from the public internet and is routed by the cloud provider’s load balancer to a Kubernetes (K8s) cluster that hosts CockroachDB. K8s pods allow {{ site.data.products.serverless }} to limit SQL resource consumption for each user. They also minimize interference between pods that are scheduled on the same machine, giving each user a high-quality experience even when other users are running heavy workloads.

The following diagram is a high-level representation of what a typical Serverless cluster looks like:

<img src="{{ 'images/cockroachcloud/serverless-diagram.png' | relative_url }}" alt="Serverless architecture" style="width:100%; max-width:800px" />

Proxy pods allow many users to share the same IP address, balance loads across a user's available SQL pods, and automatically resume clusters that have been paused due to inactivity. They also detect and respond to suspected abuse of the service.

After the cloud load balancer routes a new connection to one of the proxy pods, the proxy pod will in turn forward that connection to a SQL pod owned by the connecting user. Each SQL pod is dedicated to just one user, and multiple SQL pods can be owned by the same user. Network security rules prevent SQL pods from communicating with one another unless they are owned by the same user.

Finally, the SQL pods communicate with the KV layer to access data managed by the shared storage pods, each of which stores that data in an [AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/ebs/features/) or [GCP](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/disks#pdspecs) block storage system.

### Request Units

With {{ site.data.products.serverless }}, you are charged for the storage and activity of your cluster. All cluster activity, including SQL queries, bulk operations, and background jobs, is measured in Request Units, or RUs. RUs are an abstracted metric that represent the size and complexity of requests made to your cluster. All database operations cost a certain amount of RUs depending on the resources used. For example, a "small read" might cost 2 RUs, and a "large read" such as a full table scan with indexes might cost 100 RUs.

The cost to do a prepared point read (fetching a single row by its key) of a 64 byte row is approximately 1 RU:

  ~~~ shell
  SELECT * FROM table_with_64_byte_rows WHERE key = $1;
  ~~~

Writing a 64 byte row costs approximately7 RUs, which includes the cost of replicating the write 3 times for high availability and durability:

  ~~~ shell
  INSERT INTO table_with_64_byte_rows (key, val) VALUES (100, $1);
  ~~~

One RU is equivalent to:

  - 3 milliseconds of CPU running a SQL query
  - 1 KiB of network egress
  - 1 read of 10 byte row (approximately)

The more resource-intensive the operation, the more RUs it consumes. For example, reading a larger 1 KiB row consumes slightly more than 2 RUs since it requires additional CPU, I/O, and network egress. Writing that same 1 KiB row consumes almost 10 RUs, which includes the cost of replicating the write three times for high availability and durability. Adding secondary indexes and performing scans, joins, sorts, grouping, and other sophisticated processing consume RUs in proportion to resource usage.

RU and storage consumption is prorated at the following prices:

  Activity Measure        | Price
  ------------------------|------
  10M Request Units       | $1.00
  1 GiB storage per month | $0.50


Query           | RUs per 1 query    | Price per 1M queries
------------------------|----------|----------
Establish SQL Connection      | 26.2   | $2.62
SELECT 1 |  0.16   | $0.02
Read 1 row of 10 bytes | 1.02   | $0.10
Read 1 row of 1024 bytes | 2.05   | $0.20
Read 1 row of 2048 bytes | 3.08    | $0.31
Write 1 row of 10 bytes  | 6.42    | $0.64
Write 1 row of 1024 bytes  | 9.44    | $0.94
Write 1 row of 2048 bytes | 12.48  | $1.125
Write 1 row of 1024 bytes, with 0 indexes | 9.44    | $0.94
Write 1 row of 1024 bytes, with 1 index  | 18.75   | $1.88
Write 1 row of 1024 bytes, with 2 indexes  | 27.88    | $2.80
Scan 1K rows of 10 bytes, return 1 | 2.26    | $0.23
Scan 1K rows of 1024 bytes, return 1 | 27.88   | $2.79
Scan 10K rows of 1024 bytes, return 1 | 238.72    | $23.87

### SQL and Storage Layers

CockroachDB Serverless clusters consume three kinds of resources:
SQL CPU
Network Egress
Storage Layer I/O

To understand these resources, you need to understand a bit about the CockroachDB Serverless architecture. A Serverless cluster is divided into two layers that run in separate processes: the SQL Layer and the Storage Layer. The SQL Layer receives and runs your SQL queries and background jobs. When the SQL Layer needs to read or write data rows, it calls the Storage Layer, which manages a replicated, transactional row store that is distributed across many machines.

SQL CPU is simply the CPU consumed by SQL processes (not Storage processes) and is converted to Request Units using this equivalency: 1 RU = 3 milliseconds SQL CPU.

Network Egress measures the number of bytes that are returned from a SQL process to the calling client. It also includes any bytes sent by bulk operations like `EXPORT` or changefeeds. It is converted to Request Units using this equivalency: 1 RU = 1 KiB Network Egress.

Storage Layer I/O includes the read and write requests sent by the SQL Layer to the Storage Layer. These operations are sent in batches containing any number of requests. Requests can have a payload containing any number of bytes. Write operations are replicated to multiple storage processes (3 by default), with each replica counted as a separate write operation. Storage Layer I/O is converted to Request Units using these equivalencies:

    1 RU = 3 Storage Read batches
    
    1 RU = 3 Storage Read requests (per request in batch)
    
    1 RU = 50 KiB request payload (prorated)


    1 RU = 1 Storage Write batch
    
    1 RU = 1 Storage Write request (per request in batch)
    
    1 RU = 1 KiB request payload (prorated)

#### Example

Say you have a simple key-value pair table with a secondary index:

~~~ shell
CREATE TABLE kv (k INT PRIMARY KEY, v STRING, INDEX (v))
~~~

Now you insert a row into the table:

~~~ shell
INSERT INTO kv VALUES (1, “...imagine this is a 1 KiB string…”)
~~~

The amount of SQL CPU needed to execute this query is small, perhaps 1.5 milliseconds. The network egress is also minimal, perhaps 50 bytes. Most of the cost comes from 6 write requests to the Storage Layer with ~6K in request payload (plus a bit of extra overhead). The INSERT needs to be made first for the primary index on the k column and again for the secondary index on the v column. Each of those writes is replicated 3 times to different storage locations. Converting all these costs into a single RU number:

    1.5 SQL CPU milliseconds = 0.5 RU
    
    50 bytes Network Egress = 50/1024 = 0.05 RU
    
    6 Storage write batches = 6 RU
    
    6 Storage write requests = 6 RU
    
    6 KiB write payloads = 6 RU

    Total = 18.55 RU

Note that this is not exact, as there are other minor factors such as payload overhead and variation in the SQL CPU measurement that will affect RU usage.

### Performance

#### Baseline

Baseline performance for a Serverless cluster is 100 RUs per second, and any usage above that is called [burst performance](#cockroachdb-cloud-terms). Clusters start with 10M RUs of free burst capacity each month and earn 100 RUs per second up to a maximum of 250M free RUs per month. Earned RUs can be used immediately or accumulated as burst capacity. If you use all of your burst capacity, your cluster will revert to baseline performance.

The following diagram shows how RUs are accumulated and consumed:

<img src="{{ 'images/cockroachcloud/ru-diagram.png' | relative_url }}" alt="RU diagram" style="width:100%; max-width:800px" />

#### Paid

You can set your spend limit higher to maintain a high level of performance with larger workloads. If you have a spend limit, your cluster will not be throttled to baseline performance once you use all of your free earned RUs. Instead, it will continue to use burst performance as needed until you reach your spend limit. You will only be charged for the resources you use up to your spend limit. If you reach your spend limit, your cluster will revert to the baseline performance of 100 RUs per second.

Depending on your workload, your budget will be used differently. For example, a cluster using very little storage space will have more of its budget available for burst performance, and vice versa. If you hit your spend limit, your cluster will be throttled down to baseline performance levels. If this occurs, you can opt to increase your spend limit, adjust your workload to stay within the current spend limit, or stay at the baseline performance level until the next month.

Storage always gets first priority in the budget since you need to be able to store your data first and foremost. The remainder of the budget is allocated to burst performance. You can theoretically reach your spend limit on burst performance in the first few minutes of a cluster being created. If this happens, the cluster will be throttled back to the baseline performance and can reaccumulate burst capacity by using fewer RUs.

### Autoscaling

Serverless clusters also have the ability to scale to zero and consume no compute resources when there are no active queries. When there are no active queries, you will pay for the storage your app is using, but not for Request Units. To avoid wasted resources, {{ site.data.products.db }} automatically pauses Serverless clusters that are inactive, which is defined by having no connection to the cluster for five consecutive minutes. Once the user attempts to reconnect to the cluster, the cluster will automatically resume. Pausing, resuming, and scaling clusters is a fully-managed process and will not disrupt or affect the user experience. However, it is important for your application to have connection retry logic in the event of node restarts or network disruptions. For more information, see the [Production Checklist](production-checklist.html).

The diagrams below shows how {{ site.data.products.serverless }} autoscales with your application's traffic:

<img src="{{ 'images/cockroachcloud/serverless-low-traffic.png' | relative_url }}" alt="Serverless low traffic state" style="width:100%; max-width:800px" />

<img src="{{ 'images/cockroachcloud/serverless-high-traffic.png' | relative_url }}" alt="Serverless scaling" style="width:100%; max-width:800px" />

## Learn more

See the [CockroachDB architecture](../{{site.versions["stable"]}}/architecture/overview.html) documentation for more information.

Commit message:

remove promise of own project or account

cockroachcloud/architecture.md, after:

---
title: CockroachDB Cloud Architecture
summary: Learn more about CockroachDB Cloud architecture
toc: true
docs_area: reference.architecture
cloud: true
---

{{ site.data.products.db }} is a fully-managed deployment of CockroachDB. This page describes {{ site.data.products.db }}'s architecture and how it relates to CockroachDB.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
For an intro to CockroachDB's core architecture and capabilities, see [CockroachDB Architecture](../stable/architecture/overview.html) or take the free [Introduction to Distributed SQL and CockroachDB](https://university.cockroachlabs.com/courses/course-v1:crl+intro-to-distributed-sql-and-cockroachdb+self-paced/about) course on Cockroach University.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

{% include common/basic-terms.md %}

## {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}

If you need a single tenant cluster with no shared resources, we recommend {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}. {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} supports single and multi-region clusters in Amazon Web Services and Google Cloud Platform. {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} is recommended for all workloads: lightweight and critical production.

### Hardware

We use the Kubernetes offerings in AWS and GCP (EKS and GKE respectively) to run {{ site.data.products.db }} offerings. GCP clusters use [N1 standard](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/machine-types#n1_machine_types) machine types and [Persistent Disk storage](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/disks#pdspecs). AWS clusters use [M5 instance types](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/m5/#Product_Details) and [Elastic Block Store (EBS)](https://aws.amazon.com/ebs/features/). Each single-region cluster has a minimum of three nodes spread across three availability zones (AZ) in a cloud provider region. Multi-region clusters are similar to single-region clusters, with nodes spread across three or more AZs in each region.

### Security and Connection

{{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters are single tenant. This means that each new cluster gets its own virtual network (VPC in AWS and GCP), compute (cluster nodes), data storage (cluster disks) and IAM resources. Users connect to a {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster by using a load balancer in front of each region which leads to one connection string per region. Unless you set up [VPC peering](network-authorization.html#vpc-peering) or [AWS PrivateLink](network-authorization.html#aws-privatelink), your cluster will use TLS 1.3 protocol for encrypting inter-node and client-node communication.

{{ site.data.products.db }} clusters also use digital certificates for inter-node authentication, [SSL modes](authentication.html#ssl-mode-settings) for node identity verification, and password authentication for client identity verification. See [Authentication](authentication.html) for more details.

[Backups](backups-page.html) are encrypted in S3 and GCS buckets using the cloud provider keys.

### Multi-region architecture

The diagram below shows a high-level representation of a {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} multi-region cluster:

<img src="{{ 'images/cockroachcloud/multiregion-diagram.png' | relative_url }}" alt="Multi-region architecture" style="width:100%; max-width:800px" />

## {{ site.data.products.serverless-plan }}

{{ site.data.products.serverless }} is a fully-managed, auto-scaling deployment of CockroachDB. Being familiar with the following concepts will help you understand our Serverless architecture. While {{ site.data.products.serverless }} is in beta, it is ideal for lightweight applications, starter projects, development environments, and proofs of concept.

### Architecture

{{ site.data.products.serverless }} is a managed multi-tenant deployment of CockroachDB. A Serverless cluster is an isolated, virtualized tenant running on a much larger physical CockroachDB deployment.

{{ site.data.products.serverless }} has separate compute and storage layers. The storage pods (KV pods) can be shared across users, and the compute pods (SQL pods) are unique to each user. These shared resources make {{ site.data.products.serverless }} architecture "multi-tenant," in contrast to the single tenant architecture of [{{ site.data.products.dedicated }}](?filters=dedicated#security-and-connection).

Traffic comes in from the public internet and is routed by the cloud provider’s load balancer to a Kubernetes (K8s) cluster that hosts CockroachDB. K8s pods allow {{ site.data.products.serverless }} to limit SQL resource consumption for each user. They also minimize interference between pods that are scheduled on the same machine, giving each user a high-quality experience even when other users are running heavy workloads.

The following diagram is a high-level representation of what a typical Serverless cluster looks like:

<img src="{{ 'images/cockroachcloud/serverless-diagram.png' | relative_url }}" alt="Serverless architecture" style="width:100%; max-width:800px" />

Proxy pods allow many users to share the same IP address, balance loads across a user's available SQL pods, and automatically resume clusters that have been paused due to inactivity. They also detect and respond to suspected abuse of the service.

After the cloud load balancer routes a new connection to one of the proxy pods, the proxy pod will in turn forward that connection to a SQL pod owned by the connecting user. Each SQL pod is dedicated to just one user, and multiple SQL pods can be owned by the same user. Network security rules prevent SQL pods from communicating with one another unless they are owned by the same user.

Finally, the SQL pods communicate with the KV layer to access data managed by the shared storage pods, each of which stores that data in an [AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/ebs/features/) or [GCP](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/disks#pdspecs) block storage system.

### Request Units

With {{ site.data.products.serverless }}, you are charged for the storage and activity of your cluster. All cluster activity, including SQL queries, bulk operations, and background jobs, is measured in Request Units, or RUs. RUs are an abstracted metric that represent the size and complexity of requests made to your cluster. All database operations cost a certain amount of RUs depending on the resources used. For example, a "small read" might cost 2 RUs, and a "large read" such as a full table scan with indexes might cost 100 RUs.

The cost to do a prepared point read (fetching a single row by its key) of a 64 byte row is approximately 1 RU:

  ~~~ shell
  SELECT * FROM table_with_64_byte_rows WHERE key = $1;
  ~~~

Writing a 64 byte row costs approximately7 RUs, which includes the cost of replicating the write 3 times for high availability and durability:

  ~~~ shell
  INSERT INTO table_with_64_byte_rows (key, val) VALUES (100, $1);
  ~~~

One RU is equivalent to:

  - 3 milliseconds of CPU running a SQL query
  - 1 KiB of network egress
  - 1 read of 10 byte row (approximately)

The more resource-intensive the operation, the more RUs it consumes. For example, reading a larger 1 KiB row consumes slightly more than 2 RUs since it requires additional CPU, I/O, and network egress. Writing that same 1 KiB row consumes almost 10 RUs, which includes the cost of replicating the write three times for high availability and durability. Adding secondary indexes and performing scans, joins, sorts, grouping, and other sophisticated processing consume RUs in proportion to resource usage.

RU and storage consumption is prorated at the following prices:

  Activity Measure        | Price
  ------------------------|------
  10M Request Units       | $1.00
  1 GiB storage per month | $0.50


Query           | RUs per 1 query    | Price per 1M queries
------------------------|----------|----------
Establish SQL Connection      | 26.2   | $2.62
SELECT 1 |  0.16   | $0.02
Read 1 row of 10 bytes | 1.02   | $0.10
Read 1 row of 1024 bytes | 2.05   | $0.20
Read 1 row of 2048 bytes | 3.08    | $0.31
Write 1 row of 10 bytes  | 6.42    | $0.64
Write 1 row of 1024 bytes  | 9.44    | $0.94
Write 1 row of 2048 bytes | 12.48  | $1.125
Write 1 row of 1024 bytes, with 0 indexes | 9.44    | $0.94
Write 1 row of 1024 bytes, with 1 index  | 18.75   | $1.88
Write 1 row of 1024 bytes, with 2 indexes  | 27.88    | $2.80
Scan 1K rows of 10 bytes, return 1 | 2.26    | $0.23
Scan 1K rows of 1024 bytes, return 1 | 27.88   | $2.79
Scan 10K rows of 1024 bytes, return 1 | 238.72    | $23.87

### SQL and Storage Layers

CockroachDB Serverless clusters consume three kinds of resources:
SQL CPU
Network Egress
Storage Layer I/O

To understand these resources, you need to understand a bit about the CockroachDB Serverless architecture. A Serverless cluster is divided into two layers that run in separate processes: the SQL Layer and the Storage Layer. The SQL Layer receives and runs your SQL queries and background jobs. When the SQL Layer needs to read or write data rows, it calls the Storage Layer, which manages a replicated, transactional row store that is distributed across many machines.

SQL CPU is simply the CPU consumed by SQL processes (not Storage processes) and is converted to Request Units using this equivalency: 1 RU = 3 milliseconds SQL CPU.

Network Egress measures the number of bytes that are returned from a SQL process to the calling client. It also includes any bytes sent by bulk operations like `EXPORT` or changefeeds. It is converted to Request Units using this equivalency: 1 RU = 1 KiB Network Egress.

Storage Layer I/O includes the read and write requests sent by the SQL Layer to the Storage Layer. These operations are sent in batches containing any number of requests. Requests can have a payload containing any number of bytes. Write operations are replicated to multiple storage processes (3 by default), with each replica counted as a separate write operation. Storage Layer I/O is converted to Request Units using these equivalencies:

    1 RU = 3 Storage Read batches
    
    1 RU = 3 Storage Read requests (per request in batch)
    
    1 RU = 50 KiB request payload (prorated)


    1 RU = 1 Storage Write batch
    
    1 RU = 1 Storage Write request (per request in batch)
    
    1 RU = 1 KiB request payload (prorated)

#### Example

Say you have a simple key-value pair table with a secondary index:

~~~ shell
CREATE TABLE kv (k INT PRIMARY KEY, v STRING, INDEX (v))
~~~

Now you insert a row into the table:

~~~ shell
INSERT INTO kv VALUES (1, “...imagine this is a 1 KiB string…”)
~~~

The amount of SQL CPU needed to execute this query is small, perhaps 1.5 milliseconds. The network egress is also minimal, perhaps 50 bytes. Most of the cost comes from 6 write requests to the Storage Layer with ~6K in request payload (plus a bit of extra overhead). The INSERT needs to be made first for the primary index on the k column and again for the secondary index on the v column. Each of those writes is replicated 3 times to different storage locations. Converting all these costs into a single RU number:

    1.5 SQL CPU milliseconds = 0.5 RU
    
    50 bytes Network Egress = 50/1024 = 0.05 RU
    
    6 Storage write batches = 6 RU
    
    6 Storage write requests = 6 RU
    
    6 KiB write payloads = 6 RU

    Total = 18.55 RU

Note that this is not exact, as there are other minor factors such as payload overhead and variation in the SQL CPU measurement that will affect RU usage.

### Performance

#### Baseline

Baseline performance for a Serverless cluster is 100 RUs per second, and any usage above that is called [burst performance](#cockroachdb-cloud-terms). Clusters start with 10M RUs of free burst capacity each month and earn 100 RUs per second up to a maximum of 250M free RUs per month. Earned RUs can be used immediately or accumulated as burst capacity. If you use all of your burst capacity, your cluster will revert to baseline performance.

The following diagram shows how RUs are accumulated and consumed:

<img src="{{ 'images/cockroachcloud/ru-diagram.png' | relative_url }}" alt="RU diagram" style="width:100%; max-width:800px" />

#### Paid

You can set your spend limit higher to maintain a high level of performance with larger workloads. If you have a spend limit, your cluster will not be throttled to baseline performance once you use all of your free earned RUs. Instead, it will continue to use burst performance as needed until you reach your spend limit. You will only be charged for the resources you use up to your spend limit. If you reach your spend limit, your cluster will revert to the baseline performance of 100 RUs per second.

Depending on your workload, your budget will be used differently. For example, a cluster using very little storage space will have more of its budget available for burst performance, and vice versa. If you hit your spend limit, your cluster will be throttled down to baseline performance levels. If this occurs, you can opt to increase your spend limit, adjust your workload to stay within the current spend limit, or stay at the baseline performance level until the next month.

Storage always gets first priority in the budget since you need to be able to store your data first and foremost. The remainder of the budget is allocated to burst performance. You can theoretically reach your spend limit on burst performance in the first few minutes of a cluster being created. If this happens, the cluster will be throttled back to the baseline performance and can reaccumulate burst capacity by using fewer RUs.

### Autoscaling

Serverless clusters also have the ability to scale to zero and consume no compute resources when there are no active queries. When there are no active queries, you will pay for the storage your app is using, but not for Request Units. To avoid wasted resources, {{ site.data.products.db }} automatically pauses Serverless clusters that are inactive, which is defined by having no connection to the cluster for five consecutive minutes. Once the user attempts to reconnect to the cluster, the cluster will automatically resume. Pausing, resuming, and scaling clusters is a fully-managed process and will not disrupt or affect the user experience. However, it is important for your application to have connection retry logic in the event of node restarts or network disruptions. For more information, see the [Production Checklist](production-checklist.html).

The diagrams below shows how {{ site.data.products.serverless }} autoscales with your application's traffic:

<img src="{{ 'images/cockroachcloud/serverless-low-traffic.png' | relative_url }}" alt="Serverless low traffic state" style="width:100%; max-width:800px" />

<img src="{{ 'images/cockroachcloud/serverless-high-traffic.png' | relative_url }}" alt="Serverless scaling" style="width:100%; max-width:800px" />

## Learn more

See the [CockroachDB architecture](../{{site.versions["stable"]}}/architecture/overview.html) documentation for more information.
