cockroachcloud/cloud-sso.md, before:

---
title: Single Sign-On (SSO) for CockroachDB Cloud
summary: Overview of requirements and management procedures for single sign-on (SSO) for the {{ site.data.products.db }} Console
toc: true
docs_area: manage
---

Users may authenticate to the [{{ site.data.products.db }} Console](https://cockroachlabs.cloud) using Single Sign-On (SSO). GitHub, Google, and Microsoft are supported as identity providers (IdPs).

{% include feature-phases/preview-opt-in.md %}

Authentication with a centralized identity managed by a dedicated IdP offers several security advantages:

- All supported SSO providers (Google, Microsoft, and GitHub) support multi-factor authentication (MFA).
- Administrators avoid responsibility for managing an additional set of credentials and tying those to other identities and credentials. Every additional credential or identity management operation introduces risk as well as costing effort, so minimizing these is doubly advantageous.
- Administrators can onboard and offboard users quickly and efficiently.

## Preview: Enterprise authentication

### Support for SAML and OIDC identity protocols

[Security Access Markup Language (SAML)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Security_Assertion_Markup_Language) and [OpenID Connect (OIDC)](https://openid.net/connect/) are identity protocols that allow applications and services to rely on identity providers (IdPs) for centralized authentication.

With support for SAML and OIDC, {{ site.data.products.db }} allows enterprise organizations to use a wide variety of self-hosted or SaaS enterprise IdP solutions, such as Okta, Active Directory, Onelogin, etc., to authenticate to the {{ site.data.products.db }} Console.

### Custom sign-in page

When Enterprise Authentication is enabled, members of your {{ site.data.products.db }} organization use a unique and private sign-in page and can no longer sign in using the [public sign-in URL](https://cockroachlabs.cloud).

### Extended configuration options

Enterprise authentication allows {{ site.data.products.db }} organization admins to configure a list of allowed and disallowed authentication methods.

Only enabled authentication methods are shown on the [custom sign-in page](#custom-sign-in-page).

### Auto-provisioning

This optional enterprise feature removes the need to [invite users to your organization](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/cockroachcloud/console-access-management.html#invite-team-members-to-cockroachdb-cloud). When auto-provisioning is enabled, a {{ site.data.products.db }} account will be created automatically for your users when they sign in to the [custom sign-in page](#custom-sign-in-page) for the first time.

### How to enable enterprise authentication for {{ site.data.products.db }}

Reach out to your Cockroach Labs team to enquire about the preview of Enterprise Authentication for Cloud SSO.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
After Enterprise Authentication is enabled, your Cockroach Labs team or the support team will reach out again to finalize and confirm the setup.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## {{ site.data.products.db }} SSO Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)

### Will it work if I try to sign in with SSO without explicitly setting it up for my account, if I already use an email from an SSO Provider such as Gmail?

Yes, as long as the email address associated with your SSO provider is exactly the same as the one associated with your existing {{ site.data.products.db }} account. After successfully signing in, you will be prompted to approve the updated authentication method for your account.

To view your current authentication method, visit **My Account** in the [{{ site.data.products.db }} Console](https://cockroachlabs.cloud).

### Once I change my active login method to a new SSO provider, can I still sign in using my email/password combination or my GitHub identity?

No. Only one authentication method can be active for each {{ site.data.products.db }} Console user. Visit **My Account** in the [{{ site.data.products.db }} Console](https://cockroachlabs.cloud) to view or update your active authentication method.

### Does this change how administrators invite users?

The [workflow for inviting team members](console-access-management.html#invite-team-members-to-cockroachdb-cloud) to {{ site.data.products.db }} remains the same. If Enterprise Authentication is enabled for your {{ site.data.products.db }} organization, then you don't need to invite SSO users.

### As an admin, how do I deprovision a user's access to {{ site.data.products.db }} Console if they leave the relevant project?

If a user is using SSO, deleting the user's identity at the level of the SSO provider (for example, by deleting a user's GCP account) also removes their access to the {{ site.data.products.db }} organization.

To remove a user's access to {{ site.data.products.db }} without deleting their SSO identity, you can [remove their {{ site.data.products.db }} user identity from your {{ site.data.products.db}} organization](console-access-management.html#delete-a-team-member).

### Can admins require a particular login method for their {{ site.data.products.db }} organization?

Yes, as long as Enterprise Authentication is enabled for your {{ site.data.products.db }} organization.

### Which authentication flows are supported with Enterprise Authentication? Is it possible to enable the identity provider initiated flow?

Enterprise Authentication supports only a flow initiated by {{ site.data.products.db }}. Initiation from the IdP is not supported.

### What default role is assigned to users when auto-provisioning is enabled in a {{ site.data.products.db }} organization?

The `Developer` role is assigned by default to auto-provisioned users.

Commit message:

add note to cloud sso faq

cockroachcloud/cloud-sso.md, after:

---
title: Single Sign-On (SSO) for CockroachDB Cloud
summary: Overview of requirements and management procedures for single sign-on (SSO) for the {{ site.data.products.db }} Console
toc: true
docs_area: manage
---

Users may authenticate to the [{{ site.data.products.db }} Console](https://cockroachlabs.cloud) using Single Sign-On (SSO). GitHub, Google, and Microsoft are supported as identity providers (IdPs).

{% include feature-phases/preview-opt-in.md %}

Authentication with a centralized identity managed by a dedicated IdP offers several security advantages:

- All supported SSO providers (Google, Microsoft, and GitHub) support multi-factor authentication (MFA).
- Administrators avoid responsibility for managing an additional set of credentials and tying those to other identities and credentials. Every additional credential or identity management operation introduces risk as well as costing effort, so minimizing these is doubly advantageous.
- Administrators can onboard and offboard users quickly and efficiently.

## Preview: Enterprise authentication

### Support for SAML and OIDC identity protocols

[Security Access Markup Language (SAML)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Security_Assertion_Markup_Language) and [OpenID Connect (OIDC)](https://openid.net/connect/) are identity protocols that allow applications and services to rely on identity providers (IdPs) for centralized authentication.

With support for SAML and OIDC, {{ site.data.products.db }} allows enterprise organizations to use a wide variety of self-hosted or SaaS enterprise IdP solutions, such as Okta, Active Directory, Onelogin, etc., to authenticate to the {{ site.data.products.db }} Console.

### Custom sign-in page

When Enterprise Authentication is enabled, members of your {{ site.data.products.db }} organization use a unique and private sign-in page and can no longer sign in using the [public sign-in URL](https://cockroachlabs.cloud).

### Extended configuration options

Enterprise authentication allows {{ site.data.products.db }} organization admins to configure a list of allowed and disallowed authentication methods.

Only enabled authentication methods are shown on the [custom sign-in page](#custom-sign-in-page).

### Auto-provisioning

This optional enterprise feature removes the need to [invite users to your organization](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/cockroachcloud/console-access-management.html#invite-team-members-to-cockroachdb-cloud). When auto-provisioning is enabled, a {{ site.data.products.db }} account will be created automatically for your users when they sign in to the [custom sign-in page](#custom-sign-in-page) for the first time.

### How to enable enterprise authentication for {{ site.data.products.db }}

Reach out to your Cockroach Labs team to enquire about the preview of Enterprise Authentication for Cloud SSO.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
After Enterprise Authentication is enabled, your Cockroach Labs team or the support team will reach out again to finalize and confirm the setup.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## {{ site.data.products.db }} SSO Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)

### Will it work if I try to sign in with SSO without explicitly setting it up for my account, if I already use an email from an SSO Provider such as Gmail?

Yes, as long as the email address associated with your SSO provider is exactly the same as the one associated with your existing {{ site.data.products.db }} account. After successfully signing in, you will be prompted to approve the updated authentication method for your account.

To view your current authentication method, visit **My Account** in the [{{ site.data.products.db }} Console](https://cockroachlabs.cloud).

### Once I change my active login method to a new SSO provider, can I still sign in using my email/password combination or my GitHub identity?

No. Only one authentication method can be active for each {{ site.data.products.db }} Console user. Visit **My Account** in the [{{ site.data.products.db }} Console](https://cockroachlabs.cloud) to view or update your active authentication method.

### Does this change how administrators invite users?

The [workflow for inviting team members](console-access-management.html#invite-team-members-to-cockroachdb-cloud) to {{ site.data.products.db }} remains the same. If Enterprise Authentication is enabled for your {{ site.data.products.db }} organization, then you don't need to invite SSO users.

### As an admin, how do I deprovision a user's access to {{ site.data.products.db }} Console if they leave the relevant project?

If a user is using SSO, deleting the user's identity at the level of the SSO provider (for example, by deleting a user's GCP account) also removes their access to the {{ site.data.products.db }} organization.

To remove a user's access to {{ site.data.products.db }} without deleting their SSO identity, you can [remove their {{ site.data.products.db }} user identity from your {{ site.data.products.db}} organization](console-access-management.html#delete-a-team-member).

### Can admins require a particular login method for their {{ site.data.products.db }} organization?

Yes, as long as Enterprise Authentication is enabled for your {{ site.data.products.db }} organization.

### Which authentication flows are supported with Enterprise Authentication? Is it possible to enable the identity provider initiated flow?

The primary flow is to initiate {{ site.data.products.db }} SSO through the cloud console UI.

Initiation from the IdP is also possible, but not supported through the cloud console. Contact your account team for more information.

### What default role is assigned to users when auto-provisioning is enabled in a {{ site.data.products.db }} organization?

The `Developer` role is assigned by default to auto-provisioned users.
