cockroachcloud/cmek-ops-gcp.md, before:

---
title: Provisioning GCP KMS Keys and Service Accounts for CMEK
summary: Tutorial for provisioning CMEK in GCP, covering initial set-up, revocation, and recovery scenarios.
toc: true
docs_area: manage.security
---

This page covers the procedures required to provision a Customer Managed Encryption Key (CMEK) for your {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster with Google Cloud Platform (GCP).

This is part of the larger process of [Enabling CMEK for a {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster](managing-cmek.html#enable-cmek).

## Overview

- In [Step 1. Provision the cross-tenant service account](#step-1-provision-the-cross-tenant-service-account), we will create a service account for {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} to use to access the CMEK key for encrypt/decrypt actions.
- In [Step 2. Create the CMEK key](#step-2-create-the-cmek-key), we will explore two ways of creating the required key:
	- [Directly in the GCP key management service (KMS) console](#option-a-use-the-gcp-console)
	- By [setting up a Vault GCP-KMS secrets engine](#option-b-use-the-vault-gcp-kms-secrets-engine-to-create-the-cmek-key) with access to GCP KMS, in order to leverage the security advantages of Vault's additional layer of abstraction.
		{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
		[Learn more about the integrations between CockroachDB and HashiCorp Vault.](../{{site.versions["stable"]}}/hashicorp-integration.html)
		{{site.data.alerts.end}}
- In [Step 3. Authorize the service account to use the CMEK key
](#step-3-authorize-the-service-account-to-use-the-cmek-key), we will authorize the cross-tenant service account created in Step 1 to use the key created in Step 2.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
For multi-region clusters, you must provide a key and authorized service account combination per region. You can either:

- provide the same key for all your cluster regions.
- provide a different key per cluster region.
- provide a single dual- or multi-region key or global key for the entire cluster. See [GCP's Cloud KMS location docs](https://cloud.google.com/kms/docs/locations).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Step 1. Collect the required information

Here we will create a cross-tenant service account that can be temporarily assumed by users in another GCP project, in this case, a project managed by {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}. This service account will have permissions to use the key for encryption and decryption.

1. Find your {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} organization ID in the {{ site.data.products.db }} [organization settings page](https://cockroachlabs.cloud/settings).

1. Find your {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster ID:
	
	1. Visit the {{ site.data.products.db }} console [cluster page](https://cockroachlabs.cloud/clusters).
	1. Click on the name of your cluster.
	1. Find your cluster ID in the URL of the single cluster overview page: `https://cockroachlabs.cloud/cluster/<YOUR_CLUSTER_ID>/overview`.

1. Find your {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster's associated GCP Project ID.

	You must find the Project ID of the {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}-managed GCP Project associated with your cluster. To find this information, query the clusters endpoint of the {{ site.data.products.db }} API.

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	```shell
	CLUSTER_ID= #{ your cluster ID }
	API_KEY= #{ your API key }
	curl --request GET \
	  --url https://cockroachlabs.cloud/api/v1/clusters/${CLUSTER_ID} \
	  --header "Authorization: Bearer ${API_KEY}"
	```

	```json
	{
	  "id": "blahblahblah-9ebd-43d9-8f42-589c9e6fc081",
	  "name": "docs-rule",
	  "cockroach_version": "v22.1.1",
	  "plan": "DEDICATED",
	  "cloud_provider": "GCP",
	  "account_id": "docs-rule-123",
	  "state": "CREATED",
	  "creator_id": "blahblahblah-3457-471c-b0cb-c2ab15834329",
	  "operation_status": "CLUSTER_STATUS_UNSPECIFIED",
	  "config": {
	    "dedicated": {
	      "machine_type": "n1-standard-2",
	      "num_virtual_cpus": 2,
	      "storage_gib": 15,
	      "memory_gib": 7.5,
	      "disk_iops": 450
	    }
	  },
	  "regions": [
	    {
	      "name": "us-east4",
	      "sql_dns": "docs-rule.gcp-us-east4.cockroachlabs.cloud",
	      "ui_dns": "docs-rule.gcp-us-east4.cockroachlabs.cloud",
	      "node_count": 1
	    }
	  ],
	  "created_at": "2022-06-16T17:24:06.262259Z",
	  "updated_at": "2022-06-16T17:43:59.189571Z",
	  "deleted_at": null
	}
	```

	Record the following:
	- `account_id`: (the associated GCP Project ID)
	- `id`: your cluster ID
	- `regions`/`name`: the name of the region where the association GCP Project is located

## Step 2. Provision the cross-tenant service account

1.  Create a service account in your GCP project:

	1. In the GCP console, visit the [IAM service accounts page](https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/serviceaccounts) for your project.
	1. Click **+ Create service account**.
	
1. Authorize {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}'s GCP project to use the service account (making it *cross-tenant*).
	1. Click your newly created service account's email address to visit its details page.
	1. Select the **PERMISSIONS** tab and click **ADD**.
	1. For **New principals**, enter the service account ID for the {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}-managed service account to which you will grant access to this service account.
		The service account ID takes the following format:
		`crl-kms-user-{CLUSTER_ID}@{PROJECT_ID}.iam.gserviceaccount.com`

		Where `CLUSTER_ID` is the **last 12 digits** of your cluster ID, and `PROJECT_ID` is the GCP project ID, which you obtained previously.
	1. For **Role**, enter **Service Account Token Creator**.
	1. Click **SAVE**.

	{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
	Note the **email address** for the service account (or keep the service account tab open), as you'll need it in Step 3.
	{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Step 3. Create the CMEK key

### Option A: Use the GCP console

1. In the GCP console, visit the [KMS page](https://console.cloud.google.com/security/kms).
1. Click **+ CREATE KEY RING** and fill in the details to complete the key ring.
1. Fill in the details and **CREATE** your encryption key:
	1. **Type**: **Generated key**.
	1. **Protection level**: **Software** 
	1. **Purpose**: **Symmetric encrypt/decrypt**

	{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
	Keep your key ring name available, as you will need it.
	{{site.data.alerts.end}}

### Option B: Use the Vault GCP-KMS secrets engine to create the CMEK key

#### Prerequisites

- [Vault enterprise license](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/enterprise)
- [Vault enterprise edition installed locally](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/nomad/hashicorp-enterprise-license?in=vault/enterprise)

1. Provision a GCP service account for Vault to use to create your CMEK key.

	1. Visit the [GCP IAM roles page](https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/roles) and create a new role called `cmek-vault-role`, adding the required permissions specified in the [Vault GCP-KMS documentation](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/vault/key-management-secrets-engine-gcp-cloud-kms?in=vault/key-management#configure-cloud-kms).

!!! NO there's a missing permission here! get it from the role 
```
🦖  ./vault write keymgmt/kms/gcpckms/key/crdb-cmek-vault \
            purpose="encrypt,decrypt" \
            protection="hsm"
Error writing data to keymgmt/kms/gcpckms/key/crdb-cmek-vault: Error making API request.

URL: PUT http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/keymgmt/kms/gcpckms/key/crdb-cmek-vault
Code: 500. Errors:

* 1 error occurred:
	* rpc error: code = PermissionDenied desc = Permission 'cloudkms.importJobs.useToImport' denied on resource 'projects/noobtest123/locations/global/keyRings/theonetrue/importJobs/cde65937-3026-26af-5efa-214337ed3d0b' (or it may not exist).
```

	1. Visit the [GCP IAM service accounts page](https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/serviceaccounts) and create a service account, called `cmek-vault-agent`.

	1. From the service account's details page, select the **PERMISSIONS** tab, and attach the `cmek-vault-role`.

	1. Generate credentials for the service account.
		1. Select the **keys** tab, and click **ADD KEY**.
		1. Choose **Create new key** and then **JSON**, which will generate a credential JSON and download it to your computer.

	{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
	You will need the credential JSON file generated by GCP for the service account.
	{{site.data.alerts.end}}

1. Create a KMS Key Ring in your GCP project.
	1. In the GCP console, visit the [KMS page](https://console.cloud.google.com/security/kms).
	1. Click **+ CREATE KEY RING** and fill in the details to complete the key ring.

	{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
	You will need the name of your key ring to configure your KMS provider record in Vault.
	{{site.data.alerts.end}}

1. Initialize your shell for Vault:
	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	```shell
	 export VAULT_ADDR={YOUR_VAULT_TARGET}
	 export VAULT_TOKEN={YOUR_VAULT_TOKEN}
	 export VAULT_NAMESPACE="admin"
	```
1. Enable the KMS secrets engine:
	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	```shell
	vault secrets enable keymgmt
	```
	```txt
	Success! Enabled the keymgmt secrets engine at: keymgmt/
	```
1. Connect Vault to your GCP account by creating a KMS provider entry:

	{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
	`credentials=service_account_file=` must point to your credentials file generated for the service account.
	{{site.data.alerts.end}}

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	```shell
	vault write keymgmt/kms/gcpckms \
    provider="gcpckms" \
    key_collection="projects/{YOUR_PROJECT_NAME}/locations/global/keyRings/{YOUR_KEY_RING_NAME}" \
    credentials=service_account_file="credentials.json"
	```

	```txt
	Success! Data written to: keymgmt/kms/gcpckms
	```

1. Create an encryption key in Vault.

	This will generate the encryption key and store it in Vault. Note that at this point the key has not been imported into your GCP project's KMS service.

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	```shell
	vault write keymgmt/key/crdb-cmek-vault type="aes256-gcm96"
	```

	```txt
	Success! Data written to: keymgmt/key/aes256-gcm96
	```

1. Propagate the key to your KMS service

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	```shell
	vault write keymgmt/kms/gcpkms/key/crdb-cmek-vault \
	    purpose="encrypt,decrypt" \
	    protection="hsm"
	```

	```txt
	Success! Data written to: keymgmt/kms/gcpkms/key/crdb-cmek-vault
	```

## Step 4. Authorize the service account to use the CMEK key

1. From the [GCP console KMS page](https://console.cloud.google.com/security/kms), select your KMS key, which will be named `crdb-cmek-vault-{RANDOM_SUFFIX}` where `RANDOM_SUFFIX` is a string of random numbers.
1. Select the **PERMISSIONS** tab.
1. Click **ADD**.
1. For **New principals**, enter the email address for your cross-tenant service account created earlier.
1. Click **Select a role** and enter **Cloud KMS CryptoKey Encrypter/Decrypter**.
1. Click **SAVE**.
	{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
	Keep your key name available, as you will need it.
	{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Step 5. Build your CMEK configuration manifest

Compile the information about the service account and key we've just created into a manifest, which you will use to activate CMEK on your cluster with the {{ site.data.products.db }} API.

1. Set the required information as environment variables:

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~shell
	export CLUSTER_REGION= # the region of the {{ site.data.products.dedicated}}-controlled GCP project where your cluster is located
	export GCP_PROJECT_ID= # your GCP project ID
	export KEY_LOCATION= # location of your KMS key (region or 'global')
	export KEY_RING= # your KMS key ring name
	export KEY_NAME= # your CMEK key name, i.e., crdb-cmek-vault-{RANDOM_SUFFIX}
	export SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL= # email for your cross-tenant service account
	~~~

1. Then copy paste the following heredoc command to generate the YAML file, populating the values from your shell environment. (Alternatively, you can manually create the YAML file).

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~shell
	<<YML > cmek_config.yml
	---
	region_specs:
	- region: "${CLUSTER_REGION}"
	  key_spec:
	    type: GCP_CLOUD_KMS
	    uri: "projects/${GCP_PROJECT_ID}/locations/${KEY_LOCATION}/keyRings/${KEY_RING}/cryptoKeys/${KEY_NAME}"
	    auth_principal: "${SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL}"
	YML
	~~~

1. Use ruby (or another technique), to compile human-editable YAML into API-parsable JSON:

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~shell
	ruby -ryaml -rjson -e 'puts(YAML.load(ARGF.read).to_json)' < cmek_config.yml > cmek_config.json
	~~~

1. Use the shell utility JQ to inspect JSON payload:
	
	{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
	On a Mac, install JQ with `brew install jq`
	{{site.data.alerts.end}}

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~shell
	cat cmek_config.json | jq
	~~~

After you have built your CMEK configuration manifest with the details of your cluster, your newly pr service account and KMS key for your CockroachDB cluster's CMEK, return to [Enabling CMEK for a {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster](managing-cmek.html#step-4-activate-cmek-for-your-cockroachdb-dedicated-cluster).

Commit message:

edits from review cmek vault tutorials

cockroachcloud/cmek-ops-gcp.md, after:

---
title: Provisioning GCP KMS Keys and Service Accounts for CMEK
summary: Tutorial for provisioning CMEK in GCP, covering initial set-up, revocation, and recovery scenarios.
toc: true
docs_area: manage.security
---

This page covers the procedures required to provision a Customer Managed Encryption Key (CMEK) for your {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster with Google Cloud Platform (GCP).

This is part of the larger process of [Enabling CMEK for a {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster](managing-cmek.html#enable-cmek).

## Overview

- In [Step 1. Provision the cross-tenant service account](#step-1-provision-the-cross-tenant-service-account), we will create a service account for {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} to use to access the CMEK key for encrypt/decrypt actions.
- In [Step 2. Create the CMEK key](#step-2-create-the-cmek-key), we will explore two ways of creating the required key:
	- [Directly in the GCP key management service (KMS) console](#option-a-use-the-gcp-console)
	- By [setting up a Vault GCP-KMS secrets engine](#option-b-use-the-vault-gcp-kms-secrets-engine-to-create-the-cmek-key) with access to GCP KMS, in order to leverage the security advantages of Vault's additional layer of abstraction.
		{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
		[Learn more about the integrations between CockroachDB and HashiCorp Vault.](../{{site.versions["stable"]}}/hashicorp-integration.html)
		{{site.data.alerts.end}}
- In [Step 3. Authorize the service account to use the CMEK key
](#step-3-authorize-the-service-account-to-use-the-cmek-key), we will authorize the cross-tenant service account created in Step 1 to use the key created in Step 2.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
For multi-region clusters, you must provide a key and authorized service account combination per region. You can either:

- provide the same key for all your cluster regions.
- provide a different key per cluster region.
- provide a single dual- or multi-region key or global key for the entire cluster. See [GCP's Cloud KMS location docs](https://cloud.google.com/kms/docs/locations).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Step 1. Collect the required information

Here we will create a cross-tenant service account that can be temporarily assumed by users in another GCP project, in this case, a project managed by {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}. This service account will have permissions to use the key for encryption and decryption.

1. Find your {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} organization ID in the {{ site.data.products.db }} [organization settings page](https://cockroachlabs.cloud/settings).

1. Find your {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster ID:
	
	1. Visit the {{ site.data.products.db }} console [cluster page](https://cockroachlabs.cloud/clusters).
	1. Click on the name of your cluster.
	1. Find your cluster ID in the URL of the single cluster overview page: `https://cockroachlabs.cloud/cluster/<YOUR_CLUSTER_ID>/overview`.

1. Find your {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster's associated GCP Project ID.

	You must find the Project ID of the {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}-managed GCP Project associated with your cluster. To find this information, query the clusters endpoint of the {{ site.data.products.db }} API.

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	```shell
	CLUSTER_ID= #{ your cluster ID }
	API_KEY= #{ your API key }
	curl --request GET \
	  --url https://cockroachlabs.cloud/api/v1/clusters/${CLUSTER_ID} \
	  --header "Authorization: Bearer ${API_KEY}"
	```

	```json
	{
	  "id": "blahblahblah-9ebd-43d9-8f42-589c9e6fc081",
	  "name": "docs-rule",
	  "cockroach_version": "v22.1.1",
	  "plan": "DEDICATED",
	  "cloud_provider": "GCP",
	  "account_id": "docs-rule-123",
	  "state": "CREATED",
	  "creator_id": "blahblahblah-3457-471c-b0cb-c2ab15834329",
	  "operation_status": "CLUSTER_STATUS_UNSPECIFIED",
	  "config": {
	    "dedicated": {
	      "machine_type": "n1-standard-2",
	      "num_virtual_cpus": 2,
	      "storage_gib": 15,
	      "memory_gib": 7.5,
	      "disk_iops": 450
	    }
	  },
	  "regions": [
	    {
	      "name": "us-east4",
	      "sql_dns": "docs-rule.gcp-us-east4.cockroachlabs.cloud",
	      "ui_dns": "docs-rule.gcp-us-east4.cockroachlabs.cloud",
	      "node_count": 1
	    }
	  ],
	  "created_at": "2022-06-16T17:24:06.262259Z",
	  "updated_at": "2022-06-16T17:43:59.189571Z",
	  "deleted_at": null
	}
	```

	Record the following:
	- `account_id`: (the associated GCP Project ID)
	- `id`: your cluster ID
	- `regions`/`name`: the name of the region where the association GCP Project is located

## Step 2. Provision the cross-tenant service account

1.  Create a service account in your GCP project:

	1. In the GCP console, visit the [IAM service accounts page](https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/serviceaccounts) for your project.
	1. Click **+ Create service account**.
	
1. Authorize {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}'s GCP project to use the service account (making it *cross-tenant*).
	1. Click your newly-created service account's email address to visit its details page.
	1. Select the **PERMISSIONS** tab and click **GRANT ACCESS**.
	1. For **New principals**, enter the service account ID for the {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}-managed service account to which you will grant access to this service account.
		The service account ID takes the following format:
		`crl-kms-user-{CLUSTER_ID}@{PROJECT_ID}.iam.gserviceaccount.com`

		Where `CLUSTER_ID` is the **last 12 digits** of your cluster ID, and `PROJECT_ID` is the GCP project ID, which you obtained previously.
	1. For **Role**, enter **Service Account Token Creator**.
	1. Click **SAVE**.

	{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
	Note the **email address** for the service account (or keep the service account tab open), as you'll need it in Step 3.
	{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Step 3. Create the CMEK key

### Option A: Use the GCP console

1. In the GCP console, visit the [KMS page](https://console.cloud.google.com/security/kms).
1. Click **+ CREATE KEY RING** and fill in the details to complete the key ring.
1. Fill in the details and **CREATE** your encryption key:
	1. **Type**: **Generated key**.
	1. **Protection level**: **Software** 
	1. **Purpose**: **Symmetric encrypt/decrypt**

	{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
	Keep your key ring name available, as you will need it.
	{{site.data.alerts.end}}

### Option B: Use the Vault GCP-KMS secrets engine to create the CMEK key

#### Prerequisites

- [Vault enterprise license](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/enterprise)
- [Vault enterprise edition installed locally](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/nomad/hashicorp-enterprise-license?in=vault/enterprise)

1. Provision a GCP service account for Vault to use to create your CMEK key.

	1. Visit the [GCP IAM roles page](https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/roles) and create a new role called `cmek-vault-role`.

	1. Add the required permissions specified in the [Vault GCP-KMS documentation](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/vault/key-management-secrets-engine-gcp-cloud-kms?in=vault/key-management#configure-cloud-kms).
		{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
		You may need to add an additional permission `cloudkms.importJobs.useToImport` not mentioned in the Vault documentation.
		{{site.data.alerts.end}}

	1. Visit the [GCP IAM service accounts page](https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/serviceaccounts) and create a service account, called `cmek-vault-agent`.

	1. From the service account's details page, select the **PERMISSIONS** tab, and attach the `cmek-vault-role`.

	1. Generate credentials for the service account.
		1. Select the **keys** tab, and click **ADD KEY**.
		1. Choose **Create new key** and then **JSON**, which will generate a credential JSON and download it to your computer.

	{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
	You will need the credential JSON file generated by GCP for the service account.
	{{site.data.alerts.end}}

1. Create a KMS Key Ring in your GCP project.
	1. In the GCP console, visit the [KMS page](https://console.cloud.google.com/security/kms).
	1. Click **+ CREATE KEY RING** and fill in the details to complete the key ring.

	{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
	You will need the name of your key ring to configure your KMS provider record in Vault.
	{{site.data.alerts.end}}

1. Initialize your shell for Vault:
	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	```shell
	 export VAULT_ADDR={YOUR_VAULT_TARGET}
	 export VAULT_TOKEN={YOUR_VAULT_TOKEN}
	 export VAULT_NAMESPACE="admin"
	```
1. Enable the KMS secrets engine:
	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	```shell
	vault secrets enable keymgmt
	```
	```txt
	Success! Enabled the keymgmt secrets engine at: keymgmt/
	```
1. Connect Vault to your GCP account by creating a KMS provider entry:

	{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
	`credentials=service_account_file=` must point to your credentials file generated for the service account.
	{{site.data.alerts.end}}

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	```shell
	vault write keymgmt/kms/gcpckms \
    provider="gcpckms" \
    key_collection="projects/{YOUR_PROJECT_NAME}/locations/global/keyRings/{YOUR_KEY_RING_NAME}" \
    credentials=service_account_file="credentials.json"
	```

	```txt
	Success! Data written to: keymgmt/kms/gcpckms
	```

1. Create an encryption key in Vault.

	This will generate the encryption key and store it in Vault. Note that at this point the key has not been imported into your GCP project's KMS service.

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	```shell
	vault write keymgmt/key/crdb-cmek-vault type="aes256-gcm96"
	```

	```txt
	Success! Data written to: keymgmt/key/aes256-gcm96
	```

1. Propagate the key to your KMS service.

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	```shell
	vault write keymgmt/kms/gcpkms/key/crdb-cmek-vault \
	    purpose="encrypt,decrypt" \
	    protection="hsm"
	```

	```txt
	Success! Data written to: keymgmt/kms/gcpkms/key/crdb-cmek-vault
	```

## Step 4. Authorize the service account to use the CMEK key

1. From the [GCP console KMS page](https://console.cloud.google.com/security/kms), select your KMS key, which will be named `crdb-cmek-vault-{RANDOM_SUFFIX}` where `RANDOM_SUFFIX` is a string of random numbers.
1. Select the **PERMISSIONS** tab.
1. Click **ADD**.
1. For **New principals**, enter the email address for your cross-tenant service account created earlier.
1. Click **Select a role** and enter **Cloud KMS CryptoKey Encrypter/Decrypter**.
1. Click **SAVE**.
	{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
	Keep your key name available, as you will need it.
	{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Step 5. Build your CMEK configuration manifest

Compile the information about the service account and key we've just created into a manifest, which you will use to activate CMEK on your cluster with the {{ site.data.products.db }} API.

1. Set the required information as environment variables:

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~shell
	export CLUSTER_REGION= # the region of the {{ site.data.products.dedicated}}-controlled GCP project where your cluster is located
	export GCP_PROJECT_ID= # your GCP project ID
	export KEY_LOCATION= # location of your KMS key (region or 'global')
	export KEY_RING= # your KMS key ring name
	export KEY_NAME= # your CMEK key name, i.e., crdb-cmek-vault-{RANDOM_SUFFIX}
	export SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL= # email for your cross-tenant service account
	~~~

1. Then copy paste the following heredoc command to generate the YAML file, populating the values from your shell environment. (Alternatively, you can manually create the YAML file).

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~shell
	<<YML > cmek_config.yml
	---
	region_specs:
	- region: "${CLUSTER_REGION}"
	  key_spec:
	    type: GCP_CLOUD_KMS
	    uri: "projects/${GCP_PROJECT_ID}/locations/${KEY_LOCATION}/keyRings/${KEY_RING}/cryptoKeys/${KEY_NAME}"
	    auth_principal: "${SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL}"
	YML
	~~~

1. Use ruby (or another technique), to compile human-editable YAML into API-parsable JSON:

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~shell
	ruby -ryaml -rjson -e 'puts(YAML.load(ARGF.read).to_json)' < cmek_config.yml > cmek_config.json
	~~~

1. Use the shell utility JQ to inspect JSON payload:
	
	{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
	On a Mac, install JQ with `brew install jq`
	{{site.data.alerts.end}}

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~shell
	cat cmek_config.json | jq
	~~~

After you have built your CMEK configuration manifest with the details of your cluster, your newly pr service account and KMS key for your CockroachDB cluster's CMEK, return to [Enabling CMEK for a {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster](managing-cmek.html#step-4-activate-cmek-for-your-cockroachdb-dedicated-cluster).
