## v25.4.10

Release Date: May 1, 2026

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v25-4-10-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- Add a new session variable `optimizer_span_limit` which bounds the number of spans the optimizer will allow in a single constrained index scan. If a single `IN` set has more items than this limit, that `IN` set will not be used to build a constrained index scan. If the cross product of two or more `IN` sets would produce more spans than this limit for a composite index, then only a prefix of the `IN` sets will be used to produce spans. [#168892][#168892]

<h3 id="v25-4-10-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug where the view owner's privileges on underlying tables were not checked when selecting from a view. A view would continue to work even after the owner lost access to the underlying tables. This also affects row-level security (RLS); the view invoker's RLS policies are enforced instead of the view owner's. To enforce privilege checks on underlying tables, set the `sql.auth.skip_underlying_view_privilege_checks.enabled` cluster setting to `false`. This setting defaults to `true` to prevent backward-incompatible behavior. [#166730][#166730]
- Fixed a bug where transient I/O errors (such as cloud storage network timeouts) during split or merge trigger evaluation were misidentified as replica corruption, causing the node to crash. These errors now correctly fail the operation, which is retried automatically. [#168013][#168013]
- Fixed a bug where transient I/O errors reading from the `AbortSpan` were misidentified as replica corruption, causing the node to crash. These errors are now returned to the caller as regular errors. [#168015][#168015]
- Fixed a bug where DB Console Databases page privilege checks did not resolve role membership chains for `CONNECT` grants. Users who inherited `CONNECT` through role hierarchies now correctly see their authorized databases and tables. [#168493][#168493]


[#166730]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/166730
[#168013]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/168013
[#168015]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/168015
[#168493]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/168493
[#168892]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/168892
