_includes/v22.2/ui/active-statement-executions.md, before:


## Active Executions table

Click <img src="{{ 'images/common/ui-columns-button.png' | relative_url }}" alt="Column selector" /> to select the columns to display in the table.

Column | Description
-----|------------
Statement Execution ID | The execution ID of the statement execution.
Statement Execution | The SQL statement that was executed.
Status | The status of the execution: `Preparing`, `Waiting`, or `Executing`.
Start Time (UTC) | The timestamp when the execution started.
Time Spent Waiting | The time the execution spent waiting and experiencing lock contention.
Application | The name specified by the [`application_name`](show-vars.html#supported-variables) session setting.

To view details of an active statement execution, click an execution ID in the **Statement Execution ID** column to open the [**Statement Execution** details page](#statement-execution-details-page).

## Statement execution details page

The statement execution details page provides the following details on the statement execution.

- **Start Time (UTC)**: The timestamp when the execution started.
- **Elapsed Time**: The time elapsed since the execution started.
- **Status**: The status of the execution: `Preparing`, `Waiting`, or `Executing`.
- **Full Scan**: Whether the execution performed a full scan of the table.
- **Application Name**: The name specified by the [`application_name`]({{ link_prefix }}show-vars.html#supported-variables) session setting.
- **User Name**: The name of the user running the statement.
- **Client Address**: The IP address and port of the client that opened the session in which the statement is running.
- **Session ID**: Link to the [session](ui-sessions-page.html) in which the transaction is running.
- **Transaction Execution ID**: Link to the ID of the [transaction](ui-transactions-page.html#active-executions-table) in which the statement is executing.

If a statement execution is waiting, the statement execution details are followed by Contention Insights and details of the statement execution on which the blocked statement execution is waiting.

<img src="{{ 'images/v22.2/waiting-statement.png' | relative_url }}" alt="Movr rides transactions" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

## See also

- [Troubleshoot Query Behavior]({{ link_prefix }}query-behavior-troubleshooting.html)
- [Transaction retries]({{ link_prefix }}transactions.html#transaction-retries)
- [Optimize Statement Performance]({{ link_prefix }}make-queries-fast.html)
- [Support Resources]({{ link_prefix }}support-resources.html)
- [Raw Status Endpoints]({{ link_prefix }}monitoring-and-alerting.html#raw-status-endpoints)
- [Transactions Page]({{ page_prefix }}transactions-page.html)

Commit message:

Make ~all mentions of "contention" link to docs (#16379)
Preliminary work addressing DOC-6663

Summary of changes:

- Wide-ranging "housekeeping" PR that makes ~all places where
  'contention' is found as a bare word into *links* to the contention
  info on the 'SQL Performance Best Practices' page

- Adds more specific links to cluster settings useful for contention
  debugging / monitoring

- Makes many mentions of 'retry errors' into sentences that use the
  searchable strings '`40001` error code' and `restart transaction`,
  which in turn link to the 'Common Errors' page (which in turn links to
  the 'Transaction Retry Error Reference')

- Adds links to various contention-related tables in `crdb_internal`

- Adds links to `crdb_internal.cluster_locks` in some appropriate places

- Adds more links to the 'Hot Spots' section of the 'SQL Performance
  Best Practices' page, e.g. from the `ALTER TABLE ... SPLIT AT` docs

- Makes the 'Indicators your application is experiencing transaction
  contention' section from 'Performance Recipes' also available on the
  'SQL Performance Best Practices' page (via an include)

- Applies to the following versions:

  - v23.1 (including things in _includes/ folder; cockroachcloud/ was
    checked and did not have any instances of the term 'contention')

  - v22.2

  - v22.1 with the minor exception that the 'UI Insights Page' did not
    yet exist

_includes/v22.2/ui/active-statement-executions.md, after:


## Active Executions table

Click <img src="{{ 'images/common/ui-columns-button.png' | relative_url }}" alt="Column selector" /> to select the columns to display in the table.

Column | Description
-----|------------
Statement Execution ID | The execution ID of the statement execution.
Statement Execution | The SQL statement that was executed.
Status | The status of the execution: `Preparing`, `Waiting`, or `Executing`.
Start Time (UTC) | The timestamp when the execution started.
Time Spent Waiting | The time the execution spent waiting and experiencing [lock contention]({{ link_prefix }}performance-best-practices-overview.html#understanding-and-avoiding-transaction-contention).
Application | The name specified by the [`application_name`](show-vars.html#supported-variables) session setting.

To view details of an active statement execution, click an execution ID in the **Statement Execution ID** column to open the [**Statement Execution** details page](#statement-execution-details-page).

## Statement execution details page

The statement execution details page provides the following details on the statement execution.

- **Start Time (UTC)**: The timestamp when the execution started.
- **Elapsed Time**: The time elapsed since the execution started.
- **Status**: The status of the execution: `Preparing`, `Waiting`, or `Executing`.
- **Full Scan**: Whether the execution performed a full scan of the table.
- **Application Name**: The name specified by the [`application_name`]({{ link_prefix }}show-vars.html#supported-variables) session setting.
- **User Name**: The name of the user running the statement.
- **Client Address**: The IP address and port of the client that opened the session in which the statement is running.
- **Session ID**: Link to the [session](ui-sessions-page.html) in which the transaction is running.
- **Transaction Execution ID**: Link to the ID of the [transaction](ui-transactions-page.html#active-executions-table) in which the statement is executing.

If a statement execution is waiting, the statement execution details are followed by Contention Insights and details of the statement execution on which the blocked statement execution is waiting. For more information about contention, see [Understanding and avoiding transaction contention]({{ link_prefix }}performance-best-practices-overview.html#understanding-and-avoiding-transaction-contention).

<img src="{{ 'images/v22.2/waiting-statement.png' | relative_url }}" alt="Movr rides transactions" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

## See also

- [Troubleshoot Query Behavior]({{ link_prefix }}query-behavior-troubleshooting.html)
- [Transaction retries]({{ link_prefix }}transactions.html#transaction-retries)
- [Optimize Statement Performance]({{ link_prefix }}make-queries-fast.html)
- [Support Resources]({{ link_prefix }}support-resources.html)
- [Raw Status Endpoints]({{ link_prefix }}monitoring-and-alerting.html#raw-status-endpoints)
- [Transactions Page]({{ page_prefix }}transactions-page.html)
