_includes/v22.2/ui/jobs.md, before:

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
By default, jobs are deleted every 14 days. You can change this interval using the `jobs.retention_time` [cluster setting]({{ link_prefix }}cluster-settings.html).

The Jobs list is designed for you to manage pending work. It is not intended to display the canonical record of all jobs that have run. If you need a historical record of all jobs you have run, you should log this information externally.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Jobs table

Use the **Jobs** table to see recently created and completed jobs.

The following screenshot shows `ALTER TABLE` jobs:

<img src="{{ 'images/v22.2/ui_jobs_page.png' | relative_url }}" alt="DB Console Jobs Page" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

### Filter jobs

Use the controls to filter jobs:

- **Status**: filter jobs by [job status](#job-status).
- **Type**: filter jobs by type. [Automatic table statistics]({{ link_prefix }}cost-based-optimizer.html#table-statistics) jobs are not displayed even when the **Type** menu is set to **All**. To view these jobs, set **Type** to **Auto-Statistics Creation**.
- **Show**: toggle between showing the latest 50 jobs or all jobs.

The status line after the filters shows the number of jobs displayed and a message indicating the oldest time (in UTC) that jobs are shown for. The oldest time is calculated as `now -` the duration of the `jobs.retention_time` [cluster setting]({{ link_prefix }}cluster-settings.html), set to 28 days by default.

The table is paginated with 20 jobs per page. Click the page controls following the table to traverse pages.

The following are displayed for each job:

Column | Description
----------|------------
Description | SQL statement that created the job.
Status | Current [job status](#job-status) or completion progress.
Job ID | Unique job ID. This value is used to [pause]({{ link_prefix }}pause-job.html), [resume]({{ link_prefix }}resume-job.html), or [cancel]({{ link_prefix }}cancel-job.html) jobs.
User Name | User that created the job.
Creation Time (UTC) | Date and time the job was created.
Modified Time (UTC) | Date and time the job was modified.
Last Execution Time (UTC) | Date and time the job was last executed.
High-water Timestamp  | A checkpoint for a [changefeed job's progress]({{ link_prefix }}monitor-and-debug-changefeeds.html#monitor-a-changefeed) that guarantees that all changes before (or at) the timestamp have been emitted. Hover over the high-water timestamp to view the [system time]({{ link_prefix }}as-of-system-time.html).
Execution Count | Number of times the job was executed.
Coordinator Node | ID of the coordinating node.

To view [job details](#job-details), click the job description.

### Job status

Status | Description
-------|------------
`PENDING` | Job is created but has not started running.
`PAUSED` | Job is [paused]({{ link_prefix }}pause-job.html).
`FAILED` | Job failed to complete.
`SUCCEEDED` | Job successfully completed.
`CANCELED` | Job was [cancelled]({{ link_prefix }}cancel-job.html).
`RUNNING`  | Job is running. A job that is running will be displayed with its percent completion and time remaining, rather than the `RUNNING` status.
`REVERTING`| Job failed or was canceled and its changes are being reverted.
`RETRYING` | Job is retrying another job that failed.

## Job details

The job ID, creation time, user, status, and error messages (if any) are also shown.

<img src="{{ 'images/v22.2/ui_jobs_page_details.png' | relative_url }}" alt="DB Console Jobs Page" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

## See also

- [`SHOW JOBS`]({{ link_prefix }}show-jobs.html)
- [Troubleshooting Overview]({{ link_prefix }}troubleshooting-overview.html)
- [Support Resources]({{ link_prefix }}support-resources.html)
- [Raw Status Endpoints]({{ link_prefix }}monitoring-and-alerting.html#raw-status-endpoints)

Commit message:

Updated missing jobs status fields (#15711)

_includes/v22.2/ui/jobs.md, after:

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
By default, jobs are deleted every 14 days. You can change this interval using the `jobs.retention_time` [cluster setting]({{ link_prefix }}cluster-settings.html).

The Jobs list is designed for you to manage pending work. It is not intended to display the canonical record of all jobs that have run. If you need a historical record of all jobs you have run, you should log this information externally.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Jobs table

Use the **Jobs** table to see recently created and completed jobs.

The following screenshot shows `ALTER TABLE` jobs:

<img src="{{ 'images/v22.2/ui_jobs_page.png' | relative_url }}" alt="DB Console Jobs Page" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

### Filter jobs

Use the controls to filter jobs:

- **Status**: filter jobs by [job status](#job-status).
- **Type**: filter jobs by type. [Automatic table statistics]({{ link_prefix }}cost-based-optimizer.html#table-statistics) jobs are not displayed even when the **Type** menu is set to **All**. To view these jobs, set **Type** to **Auto-Statistics Creation**.
- **Show**: toggle between showing the latest 50 jobs or all jobs.

The status line after the filters shows the number of jobs displayed and a message indicating the oldest time (in UTC) that jobs are shown for. The oldest time is calculated as `now -` the duration of the `jobs.retention_time` [cluster setting]({{ link_prefix }}cluster-settings.html), set to 28 days by default.

The table is paginated with 20 jobs per page. Click the page controls following the table to traverse pages.

The following are displayed for each job:

Column | Description
----------|------------
Description | SQL statement that created the job.
Status | Current [job status](#job-status) or completion progress.
Job ID | Unique job ID. This value is used to [pause]({{ link_prefix }}pause-job.html), [resume]({{ link_prefix }}resume-job.html), or [cancel]({{ link_prefix }}cancel-job.html) jobs.
User Name | User that created the job.
Creation Time (UTC) | Date and time the job was created.
Modified Time (UTC) | Date and time the job was modified.
Last Execution Time (UTC) | Date and time the job was last executed.
High-water Timestamp  | A checkpoint for a [changefeed job's progress]({{ link_prefix }}monitor-and-debug-changefeeds.html#monitor-a-changefeed) that guarantees that all changes before (or at) the timestamp have been emitted. Hover over the high-water timestamp to view the [system time]({{ link_prefix }}as-of-system-time.html).
Execution Count | Number of times the job was executed.
Coordinator Node | ID of the coordinating node.

To view [job details](#job-details), click the job description.

### Job status

Status | Description
-------|------------
`PENDING` | Job is created but has not started running.
`PAUSED` | Job is [paused]({{ link_prefix }}pause-job.html).
`PAUSE-REQUESTED` | A request has been issued to pause the job. The status will move to `PAUSED` when the node running the job registers the request.
`FAILED` | Job failed to complete.
`SUCCEEDED` | Job successfully completed.
`CANCELED` | Job was [canceled]({{ link_prefix }}cancel-job.html).
`CANCEL-REQUESTED` | A request has been issued to cancel the job. The status will move to `CANCELED` when the node running the job registers the request.
`RUNNING`  | Job is running. A job that is running will be displayed with its percent completion and time remaining, rather than the `RUNNING` status.
`REVERTING`| Job failed or was canceled and its changes are being reverted.
`REVERT-FAILED` | Job encountered a non-retryable error when reverting the changes. It is necessary to manually clean up a job with this status.
`RETRYING` | Job is retrying another job that failed.
 
## Job details

The job ID, creation time, user, status, and error messages (if any) are also shown.

<img src="{{ 'images/v22.2/ui_jobs_page_details.png' | relative_url }}" alt="DB Console Jobs Page" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

## See also

- [`SHOW JOBS`]({{ link_prefix }}show-jobs.html)
- [Troubleshooting Overview]({{ link_prefix }}troubleshooting-overview.html)
- [Support Resources]({{ link_prefix }}support-resources.html)
- [Raw Status Endpoints]({{ link_prefix }}monitoring-and-alerting.html#raw-status-endpoints)
