_includes/v22.2/ui/transaction-details.md, before:

## Transaction Details page

The details displayed on the **Transaction Details** page reflect the [time interval](#time-interval) selected on the **Transactions** page.

- The _transaction fingerprint_ is displayed as a list of the individual [SQL statement fingerprints]({{ page_prefix }}statements-page.html#sql-statement-fingerprints) in the transaction.
- The **Mean transaction time**: the mean average time it took to execute the transaction within the aggregation interval.
- **Transaction resource usage** shows overall statistics about the transaction.
    - **Mean rows/bytes read**: the mean average number of rows and bytes [read from the storage layer]({{ link_prefix }}architecture/life-of-a-distributed-transaction.html#reads-from-the-storage-layer) during the execution of the transaction within the specified aggregation interval.
    - **Bytes read over network**: the amount of [data transferred over the network]({{ link_prefix }}architecture/reads-and-writes-overview.html) for this transaction within the aggregation interval. <br><br>If this value is 0, the statement was executed on a single node.
    - **Mean rows written**: the mean number of rows written by this transaction.
    - **Max memory usage**: the maximum memory used by this transaction at any time during its execution within the aggregation interval.
    - **Max scratch disk usage**: the maximum amount of data [spilled to temporary storage on disk]({{ link_prefix }}vectorized-execution.html#disk-spilling-operations) while executing this transaction within the aggregation interval.


The [Statements page]({{ page_prefix }}statements-page.html) displays the statement fingerprints of all the statements in the transaction. To display the [details of a statement fingerprint]({{ page_prefix }}statements-page.html#statement-fingerprint-page), click a statement fingerprint.

## See also

- [Transactions]({{ link_prefix }}transactions.html)
- [Transaction Layer]({{ link_prefix }}architecture/transaction-layer.html)
- [Run Multi-Statement Transactions]({{ link_prefix }}run-multi-statement-transactions.html)
{% if page.cloud != true %}
- [Transaction latency graphs](ui-sql-dashboard.html#transactions)
{% endif %}
- [Transaction retries]({{ link_prefix }}transactions.html#transaction-retries)
- [Statements Page]({{ page_prefix }}statements-page.html)

Commit message:

Some UI tweaks for Application Name.

_includes/v22.2/ui/transaction-details.md, after:

## Transaction Details page

The details displayed on the **Transaction Details** page reflect the [time interval](#time-interval) selected on the **Transactions** page.

- The _transaction fingerprint_ is displayed as a list of the individual [SQL statement fingerprints]({{ page_prefix }}statements-page.html#sql-statement-fingerprints) in the transaction.
- The **Mean transaction time**: The mean average time it took to execute the transaction within the aggregation interval.
- The **Application name**: The name specified by the [`application_name`]({{ link_prefix }}show-vars.html#supported-variables) session setting.
- **Transaction resource usage** shows overall statistics about the transaction.
    - **Mean rows/bytes read**: The mean average number of rows and bytes [read from the storage layer]({{ link_prefix }}architecture/life-of-a-distributed-transaction.html#reads-from-the-storage-layer) during the execution of the transaction within the specified aggregation interval.
    - **Bytes read over network**: The amount of [data transferred over the network]({{ link_prefix }}architecture/reads-and-writes-overview.html) for this transaction within the aggregation interval. <br><br>If this value is 0, the statement was executed on a single node.
    - **Mean rows written**: The mean number of rows written by this transaction.
    - **Max memory usage**: The maximum memory used by this transaction at any time during its execution within the aggregation interval.
    - **Max scratch disk usage**: The maximum amount of data [spilled to temporary storage on disk]({{ link_prefix }}vectorized-execution.html#disk-spilling-operations) while executing this transaction within the aggregation interval.


The [Statements page]({{ page_prefix }}statements-page.html) displays the statement fingerprints of all the statements in the transaction. To display the [details of a statement fingerprint]({{ page_prefix }}statements-page.html#statement-fingerprint-page), click a statement fingerprint.

## See also

- [Transactions]({{ link_prefix }}transactions.html)
- [Transaction Layer]({{ link_prefix }}architecture/transaction-layer.html)
- [Run Multi-Statement Transactions]({{ link_prefix }}run-multi-statement-transactions.html)
{% if page.cloud != true %}
- [Transaction latency graphs](ui-sql-dashboard.html#transactions)
{% endif %}
- [Transaction retries]({{ link_prefix }}transactions.html#transaction-retries)
- [Statements Page]({{ page_prefix }}statements-page.html)
