<h2 id="{{ include.release | slugify }}">{{ include.release }}</h2>

Release Date: {{ include.release_date | date: "%B %-d, %Y" }}

This week's release includes:

 - Improved support for large delete statements.
 - Reduced disruption during upgrades and restarts.
 - Reduced occurrence of serializable transaction restarts.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}This release has a bug that may result in incorrect results for certain queries using <code>JOIN</code> and <code>ORDER BY</code>. This bug will be fixed in next week's beta.{{site.data.alerts.end}}

<h3 id="v2-0-beta-20180305-downloads">Downloads</h3>

<div id="os-tabs" class="clearfix os-tabs_button-outline-primary">
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v2.0-beta.20180305.darwin-10.9-amd64.tgz"><button id="mac" data-eventcategory="mac-binary-release-notes">Mac</button></a>
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v2.0-beta.20180305.linux-amd64.tgz"><button id="linux" data-eventcategory="linux-binary-release-notes">Linux</button></a>
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v2.0-beta.20180305.src.tgz"><button id="source" data-eventcategory="source-release-notes">Source</button></a>
</div>

<h3 id="v2-0-beta-20180305-backwards-incompatible-changes">Backwards-Incompatible Changes</h3>

- [Sequences](../v2.0/create-sequence.html) are now supported in enterprise [`BACKUP`](../v2.0/backup.html)/[`RESTORE`](../v2.0/restore.html) jobs.

    This changes how sequences are stored in the key-value storage layer, so existing sequences must be dropped and recreated. Since a sequence cannot be dropped while it is being used in a column's [`DEFAULT`](../v2.0/default-value.html) expression, those expressions must be dropped before the sequence is dropped, and recreated after the sequence is recreated. The `setval()` function can be used to set the value of a sequence to what it was previously. [#21684][#21684]

- Positive [constraints in replication zone configs](../v2.0/configure-replication-zones.html#replication-constraints) no longer work. Any existing positive constraints will be ignored. This change should not impact existing deployments since positive constraints have not been documented or supported for some time. [#22906][#22906]

<h3 id="v2-0-beta-20180305-build-changes">Build Changes</h3>

- CockroachDB now builds with go 1.9.4 and higher. [#22608][#22608]

<h3 id="v2-0-beta-20180305-general-changes">General Changes</h3>

- [Diagnostics reports](../v2.0/diagnostics-reporting.html) now include information about changed settings and statistics on types of errors encountered during SQL execution. [#22705][#22705], [#22693][#22693], [#22948][#22948]

<h3 id="v2-0-beta-20180305-enterprise-edition-changes">Enterprise Edition Changes</h3>

- Revision history [`BACKUP`](../v2.0/backup.html)/[`RESTORE`](../v2.0/restore.html) is no longer considered experimental. [#22679][#22679]
- Revision history [`BACKUP`](../v2.0/backup.html)/[`RESTORE`](../v2.0/restore.html) now handles schema changes. [#21717][#21717]
- CockroachDB now checks that a backup actually contains the requested restore time. [#22659][#22659]
- Improved [`BACKUP`](../v2.0/backup.html)'s handling of tables after [`TRUNCATE`](../v2.0/truncate.html). [#21895][#21895]
- Ensured that only the backups created by the same cluster can be used in incremental backups. [#22474][#22474]
- Avoided extra internal copying of files during [`RESTORE`](../v2.0/restore.html). [#22281][#22281]
- Added a geographical map to the homepage of the Admin UI enterprise version, showing the location of nodes and localities in the cluster. The map is annotated with several top-level metrics: storage capacity used, queries per second, and current CPU usage, as well as the liveness status of nodes in the cluster. [#22763][#22763]

<h3 id="v2-0-beta-20180305-sql-language-changes">SQL Language Changes</h3>

- The type determined for constant `NULL` expressions is renamed to `unknown` for better compatibility with PostgreSQL. [#23150][#23150]
- Deleting multiple rows at once now consumes less memory. [#23013][#23013]
- Attempts to modify virtual schemas with DDL statements now fail with a clearer error message. [#23041][#23041]
- The new `SHOW SCHEMAS` statement reveals which are the valid virtual schemas next to the physical schema `public`. [#23041][#23041]
- CockroachDB now recognizes the special syntax `SET SCHEMA <name>` as an alias for `SET search_path = <name>` for better compatibility with PostgreSQL. [#23041][#23041]
- `current_role()` and `current_catalog()` are supported as aliases for the `current_user()` and `current_database()` [built-in functions](../v2.0/functions-and-operators.html) for better compatibility with PostgreSQL. [#23041][#23041]
- CockroachDB now returns the correct error code for division by zero. [#22948][#22948]
- The GC of table data after a [`DROP TABLE`](../v2.0/drop-table.html) statement now respects changes to the GC TTL interval specified in the zone config [#22903][#22903]
- The full names of tables/view/sequences are now properly logged in the system event log. [#22848][#22848]
- CockroachDB now recognizes the syntax `db.public.tbl` in addition to `db.tbl` for better compatibility with PostgreSQL. The handling of the session variable `search_path`, as well as that of the built-in functions `current_schemas()` and `current_schema()`, is now closer to that of PostgreSQL. Thus `SHOW TABLES FROM` can now inspect the tables of a specific schema (for example, `SHOW TABLES FROM db.public` or `SHOW TABLES FROM db.pg_catalog`). `SHOW GRANTS` also shows the schema of the databases and tables. [#22753][#22753]
- Users can now configure auditing per table and per access mode with `ALTER TABLE`. [#22534][#22534]
- SQL execution logs enabled by the [cluster setting](../v2.0/cluster-settings.html) `sql.trace.log_statement_execute` now go to a separate log file. This is an experimental feature meant to aid troubleshooting CockroachDB. [#22534][#22534]
- Added the `string_to_array()` [built-in function](../v2.0/functions-and-operators.html). [#22391][#22391]
- Added the `constraint_column_usage` table and roles-related tables to the [`information_schema`](../v2.0/information-schema.html) database. [#22323][#22323] [#22242][#22242]
- [`IMPORT`](../v2.0/import.html) no longer requires the experimental setting. [#22531][#22531]
- Computed columns and `CHECK` constraints now correctly report column names in the case of a type error. [#22500][#22500]
- The output of [`JSON`](../v2.0/jsonb.html) data now matches that of PostgreSQL. [#22393][#22393]
- Allowed [`IMPORT`](../v2.0/import.html) jobs to be paused. `IMPORT` jobs now correctly resume instead of being abandoned if the coordinator goes down. [#22291][#22291]
- Removed the `into_db` option in [`IMPORT`](../v2.0/import.html). The database is now specified as part of the table name. [#21813][#21813]
- Changed computed column syntax and improved related error messages. [#22429][#22429]
- Implemented additional [`INET`](../v2.0/inet.html) column type operators such as `contains` and `contained by`, binary operations, and addition/subtraction.
- Implemented the following operators for [`INET`](../v2.0/inet.html) column types: `<<`, `<<=`, `>>`, `>>=`, `&&`, `+`, `-`, `^`, `|`, `&`.  These operators are compatible with PostgreSQL 10 and are described in Table: 9.36 of the PostgreSQL documentation. [#21437][#21437]
- CockroachDB now properly rejects incorrectly-cased SQL function names with an error. [#22365][#22365]
- Allowed [`DEFAULT`](../v2.0/default-value.html) expressions in the `CREATE TABLE` of an [`IMPORT`](../v2.0/import.html) CSV. The expressions are not evaluated (data in the CSV is still required to be present). This change only allows them to be part of the table definition. [#22307][#22307]
- Added the `#-` [operator](../v2.0/functions-and-operators.html) for `JSON`. [#22375][#22375]
- The `SET transaction_isolation` statement is now supported for better PostgreSQL compatibility. [#22389][#22389]
- Allowed creation of computed columns. [#21823][#21823]
- Avoided extra internal copying of files during [`IMPORT`](../v2.0/import.html). [#22281][#22281]
- Casts between [array types](../v2.0/array.html) are now allowed when a cast between the parameter types is allowed. [#22338][#22338]
- Scalar functions can now be used in `FROM` clauses. [#22314][#22314]
- Added privilege checks on [sequences](../v2.0/create-sequence.html). [#22284][#22284]
- The `ON DELETE SET DEFAULT`, `ON UPDATE SET DEFAULT`, `ON DELETE SET NULL`, and `ON UPDATE SET NULL` [foreign key constraint actions](../v2.0/foreign-key.html#foreign-key-actions-new-in-v2-0) are now fully supported. [#22220][#22220] [#21767][#21767] [#21716][#21716]
- The `ON DELETE CASCADE` and `ON UPDATE CASCADE` [foreign key constraint actions](../v2.0/foreign-key.html#foreign-key-actions-new-in-v2-0) can now also contain `CHECK` constraints. [#22535][#22535]
- JSON inverted indexes can now be specified in a [`CREATE TABLE`](../v2.0/create-table.html) statement. [#22217][#22217]
- When a node is gracefully shut down, planning queries are avoided and distributed queries are allowed the amount of time specified by the new `server.drain_max_wait` [cluster setting](../v2.0/cluster-settings.html) before the node is drained and stopped. [#20450][#20450]
- [Collated string](../v2.0/collate.html) are now supported in [IMPORT](../v2.0/import.html) jobs. [#21859][#21859]
- The new `SHOW GRANTS ON ROLE` statement and `pg_catalog.pg_auth_members` table lists role memberships. [#22205][#22205] [#21780][#21780]
- Role memberships are now considered in permission checks. [#21820][#21820]

<h3 id="v2-0-beta-20180305-command-line-changes">Command-Line Changes</h3>

- [Replication zone constraints](../v2.0/configure-replication-zones.html#replication-constraints) can now be specified on a per-replica basis, meaning you can configure some replicas in a zone's ranges to follow one set of constraints and other replicas to follow other constraints. [#22906][#22906]
- Per-replica constraints no longer have to add up to the total number of replicas in a range. If you do not specify all the replicas, then the remaining replicas will be allowed on any store. [#23081][#23081]
- [`cockroach sql`](../v2.0/use-the-built-in-sql-client.html) now reminds the user about `SET database = ...` and `CREATE DATABASE` if started with no current database set. [#23089][#23089]
- Error messages displayed while connecting to a server with an incompatible version have been improved. [#22709][#22709]
- The `--cache` and `--max-sql-memory` flags of [`cockroach start`](../v2.0/start-a-node.html) now also support decimal notation to support a fraction of total available RAM size, e.g., `--cache=.25` is equivalent to `--cache=25%`. This simplifies integration with system management tools. [#22460][#22460]
- When printing tabular results as CSV or TSV, no final row count is emitted. This is intended to increase interoperability with external tools. [#20835][#20835]
- The `pretty` formatter does not introduce special unicode characters in multi-line table cells, for better compatibility with certain clients. To disambiguate multi-line cells from multiple single-line cells, a user can use `WITH ORDINALITY` to add a row numbering column. [#22324][#22324]
- Allowed specification of arbitrary RocksDB options. [#22401][#22401]
- [Debug commands](../v2.0/debug-zip.html) now open RocksDB in read-only mode. This makes them faster and able to run in parallel. [#21778][#21778]
- The [`cockroach dump`](../v2.0/sql-dump.html) command now outputs `CREATE SEQUENCE` statements before the `CREATE TABLE` statements that use them. [#21774][#21774]
- For better compatibility with `psql`'s extended format, the table formatter `records` now properly indicates line continuations in multi-line rows. [#22325][#22325]
- The [`cockroach sql`](../v2.0/use-the-built-in-sql-client.html) client-side option `show_times` is now always enabled when output goes to a terminal, not just when `display_format` is set to `pretty`. [#22326][#22326]
- When formatting [`cockroach sql`](../v2.0/use-the-built-in-sql-client.html) results with `--format=sql`, the row count is now printed in a SQL comment at the end. [#22327][#22327]
- When formatting [`cockroach sql`](../v2.0/use-the-built-in-sql-client.html) results with `--format=csv` or `--format=tsv`, result rows that contain special characters are now quoted properly. [#19306][#19306]

<h3 id="v2-0-beta-20180305-admin-ui-changes">Admin UI Changes</h3>

- [Decommissioned nodes](../v2.0/remove-nodes.html) are no longer included in cluster stats aggregates. [#22711][#22711]
- Time series metrics dashboards now show their own title rather than the generic "Cluster Overview". [#22746][#22746]
- The URLs for Admin UI pages have been reorganized to provide more consistent structure to the site. Old links will redirect to the new location of the page. [#22746][#22746]
- Nodes being decommissioned are now included in the total nodes count until they are completely decommissioned. [#22690][#22690]
- Added new graphs for monitoring activity of the time series system. [#22672][#22672]
- Disk usage for time series data is now visible on the **Databases** page. [#22398][#22398]
- Added a ui-clean task. [#22552][#22552]
- Added an icon to indicate when descriptions in the **Jobs** table are shortened and expandable. [#22221][#22221]
- Added "compaction queue" graphs to the **Queues** dashboard. [#22218][#22218]
- Added Raft snapshot queue metrics to the **Queue** dashboard. [#22210][#22210]
- Dead nodes are now displayed before live nodes on the **Nodes List** page. [#22222][#22222]
- Links to documentation in the Admin UI now point to the docs for v2.0. [#21894][#21894]

<h3 id="v2-0-beta-20180305-bug-fixes">Bug Fixes</h3>

- Fixed an issue where Admin UI graph tooltips would continue to display zero values for nodes which had long been decommissioned. [#22626][#22626]
- Fixed an issue where Admin UI graphs would occasionally have a persistent "dip" at the leading edge of data. [#22570][#22570]
- Fixed an issue where viewing Admin UI graphs for very long time spans (e.g., 1 month) could cause excessive memory usage. [#22392][#22392]
- Fixed padding on the **Node Diagnostics** page of the Admin UI. [#23019][#23019]
- Corrected the title of the decommissioned node list, which was mistakenly updated to say "Decommissioning". [#22703][#22703]
- Fixed a bug in [`cockroach dump`](../v2.0/sql-dump.html) output with `SEQUENCES`. [#22619][#22619]
- Fixed a bug that created uneven distribution of data (or failures in some cases) during [`IMPORT`](../v2.0/import.html) of tables without an explicit primary key. [#22542][#22542]
- Fixed a bug that could prevent disk space from being reclaimed. [#23153][#23153]
- [Replication zone configs](../v2.0/configure-replication-zones.html) no longer accept negative numbers as input. [#23081][#23081]
- Fixed the occasional selection of sub-optimal rebalance targets. [#23081][#23081]
- [`cockroach dump`](../v2.0/sql-dump.html) is now able to dump sequences with non-default parameters. [#23062][#23062]
- [Arrays](../v2.0/array.html) now support the `IS [NOT] DISTINCT FROM` operators. [#23090][#23090]
- [`SHOW TABLES`](../v2.0/show-tables.html) is now again able to inspect virtual schemas. [#23041][#23041]
- The special form of [`CREATE TABLE .. AS`](../v2.0/create-table-as.html) now properly supports placeholders in the subquery. [#23046][#23046]
- Fixed a bug where ranges could get stuck in an infinite "removal pending" state and would refuse to accept new writes. [#23024][#23024]
- Fixed incorrect index constraints on primary key columns on unique indexes. [#23003][#23003]
- Fixed a panic when upgrading quickly from v1.0.x to v2.0.x [#22971][#22971]
- Fixed a bug that prevented joins on interleaved tables with certain layouts from working. [#22935][#22935]
- The service latency tracked for SQL statement now includes the wait time of the execute message in the input queue. [#22881][#22881]
- The conversion from [`INTERVAL`](../v2.0/interval.html) to [`FLOAT`](../v2.0/float.html) now properly returns the number of seconds in the interval. [#22894][#22894]
- Fixed incorrect query results when the `WHERE` condition contains `IN` expressions where the right-hand side tuple contains `NULL`s. [#22735][#22735]
- Fixed incorrect handling for `IS (NOT) DISTINCT FROM` when either side is a tuple that contains `NULL`. [#22718][#22718]
- Fixed incorrect evaluation of `IN` expressions where the left-hand side is a tuple, and some of the tuples on either side contain `NULL`. [#22718][#22718]
- Expressions stored in check constraints and computed columns are now stored de-qualified so that they no longer refer to a specific database or table. [#22667][#22667]
- Fixed a bug where reusing addresses of decommissioned nodes could cause issues with Admin UI graphs. [#22614][#22614]
- [`IMPORT`](../v2.0/import.html) jobs can no longer be started if the target table already exists. [#22627][#22627]
- Computed columns can no longer be added to a table after table creation. [#22653][#22653]
- Allowed [`UPSERT`](../v2.0/upsert.html)ing into a table with computed columns. [#22517][#22517]
- Computed columns are now correctly disallowed from being foreign key references. [#22511][#22511]
- Various primitives that expect table names as argument now properly reject invalid table names. [#22577][#22577]
- `AddSSTable` no longer accidentally destroys files in the log on success. [#22551][#22551]
- `IsDistinctFrom` with `NULL` placeholder no longer returns incorrect results. [#22433][#22433]
- Fixed a bug that caused incorrect results for joins where columns that are constrained to be equal have different types. [#22549][#22549]
- Implemented additional safeguards against RPC connections between nodes that belong to different clusters. [#22518][#22518]
- The [`/health` endpoint](../v2.0/monitoring-and-alerting.html) now returns a node as unhealthy when draining or decommissioning. [#22502][#22502]
- Aggregates that take null arguments no return the correct results. [#22507][#22507]
- Fixed empty plan columns of `sequenceSelectNode`. [#22495][#22495]
- Disallowed any inserts into computed columns. [#22470][#22470]
- Tables with computed columns will produce a meaningful dump. [#22402][#22402]
- [`cockroach sql`](../v2.0/use-the-built-in-sql-client.html) no longer produces an error anymore when an empty statement is entered at the interactive prompt. [#22449][#22449]
- The `pg_typeof()` function now returns the correct type for the output of `UNION ALL` even when the left sub-select has a `NULL` column. [#22438][#22438]
- `<TYPE> <value>` literal casts now work correctly for all fixed-length types. [#22397][#22397]
- Errors from DDL statements sent by a client as part of a transaction, but in a different query string than the final commit, are no longer silently swallowed. [#21829][#21829]
- Fixed a bug in cascading foreign key actions. [#21799][#21799]
- Tabular results where the column labels contain newline characters are now rendered properly. [#19306][#19306]
- Fixed a bug that prevented long descriptions in the Admin UI **Jobs** table from being collapsed after being expanding. [#22221][#22221]
- Fixed a bug that prevented using [`SHOW GRANTS`](../v2.0/show-grants.html) with a grantee but no targets. [#21864][#21864]
- Fixed a panic with certain queries involving the `REGCLASS` type. [#22310][#22310]
- Fixed the behavior and types of the `encode()` and `decode()` functions. [#22230][#22230]
- Fixed a bug that prevented passing the same tuple for `FROM` and `TO` in `ALTER TABLE ... SCATTER`. [#21830][#21830]
- Fixed a regression that caused certain queries using `LIKE` or `SIMILAR TO` with an indexed column to be slow. [#21842][#21842]
- Fixed a stack overflow in the code for shutting down a server when out of disk space [#21768][#21768]
- Fixed Windows release builds. [#21793][#21793]
- Fixed an issue with the wire-formatting of [`BYTES`](../v2.0/bytes.html) arrays. [#21712][#21712]
- Fixed a bug that could lead to a node crashing and needing to be reinitialized. [#21771][#21771]
- When a database is created, dropped, or renamed, the SQL session is blocked until the effects of the operation are visible to future queries in that session. [#21900][#21900]
- Fixed a bug where healthy nodes could appear as "Suspect" in the Admin UI if the web browser's local clock was skewed. [#22237][#22237]
- Fixed bugs when running DistSQL queries across mixed-version (1.1.x and 2.0-alpha) clusters. [#22897][#22897]

<h3 id="v2-0-beta-20180305-performance-improvements">Performance Improvements</h3>

- Improved a cluster's ability to continue operating when nearly out of disk space on most nodes. [#21866][#21866]
- Disk space is more aggressively freed up when the disk is almost full. [#22235][#22235]
- Experimentally enabled some joins to perform a lookup join and increase join speed for cases where the right side of the join is much larger than the left. [#22674][#22674]
- Supported distributed execution of `INTERSECT` and `EXCEPT` queries. [#22442][#22442]
- Reduced cancellation time of DistSQL aggregation queries. [#22684][#22684]
- Unnecessary value checksums are no longer computed, speeding up database writes. [#22487][#22487]
- Reduced unnecessary logging in the storage layer. [#22516][#22516]
- Improved the performance of distributed sql queries. [#22471][#22471]
- Distributed execution of `INTERSECT ALL` and `EXCEPT ALL` queries is now supported. [#21896][#21896]
- Allowed `-` in usernames, but not as the first character. [#22728][#22728]
- A `COMMIT` reporting an error generated by a previous parallel statement (i.e., `RETURNING NOTHING`) no longer leaves the connection in an aborted transaction state. Instead, the transaction is considered completed and a `ROLLBACK` is not necessary. [#22683][#22683]
- Significantly reduced the likelihood of serializable restarts seen by clients due to concurrent workloads. [#21140][#21140]
- Reduced disruption from nodes recovering from network partitions. [#22316][#22316]
- Improved the performance of scans by copying less data in memory. [#22309][#22309]
- Slightly improved the performance of low-level scan operations. [#22244][#22244]
- When a range grows too large, writes are now be backpressured until the range is successfully able to split. This prevents unbounded range growth and improves a clusters ability to stay healthy under hotspot workloads. [#21777][#21777]
- The `information_schema` and `pg_catalog` databases are now faster to query. [#21609][#21609]
- Reduced the write amplification of Raft replication. [#20647][#20647]

<h3 id="v2-0-beta-20180305-doc-updates">Doc Updates</h3>

- Added [cloud-specific hardware recommendations](../v2.0/recommended-production-settings.html#cloud-specific-recommendations). [#2312](https://github.com/cockroachdb/docs/pull/2312)
- Added a [detailed listing of SQL standard features with CockroachDB's level of support](../v2.0/sql-feature-support.html). [#2442](https://github.com/cockroachdb/docs/pull/2442)
- Added docs on the [`INET`](../v2.0/inet.html) data type. [#2439](https://github.com/cockroachdb/docs/pull/2439)
- Added docs on the [`SHOW CREATE SEQUENCE`](../v2.0/show-create-sequence.html) statement. [#2406](https://github.com/cockroachdb/docs/pull/2406)
- Clarified that [password creation](../v2.0/create-and-manage-users.html#user-authentication) is only supported in secure clusters. [#2567](https://github.com/cockroachdb/docs/pull/2567)
- Added docs on [production monitoring tools](../v2.0/monitoring-and-alerting.html) and the critical events and metrics to alert on. [#2564](https://github.com/cockroachdb/docs/pull/2564)
- Added docs on the [`JSONB`](../v2.0/jsonb.html) data type. [#2561](https://github.com/cockroachdb/docs/pull/2561)
- Added docs on the `BETWEEN SYMMETRIC` [operator](../v2.0/functions-and-operators.html#operators). [#2551](https://github.com/cockroachdb/docs/pull/2551)
- Updated docs on [supporting castings for `ARRAY` values](../v2.0/array.html#supported-casting-conversionnew-in-v2-0). [#2549](https://github.com/cockroachdb/docs/pull/2549)
- Various improvements to docs on the [built-in SQL client](../v2.0/use-the-built-in-sql-client.html). [#2544](https://github.com/cockroachdb/docs/pull/2544)

<div class="release-note-contributors" markdown="1">

<h3 id="v2-0-beta-20180305-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 430 merged PRs by 37 authors. We would like to thank all contributors from the CockroachDB community, with special thanks to first-time contributors noonan, Mark Wistrom, pocockn, and 何羿宏.

</div>

[#19306]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/19306
[#20290]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/20290
[#20450]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/20450
[#20647]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/20647
[#20790]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/20790
[#20835]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/20835
[#21140]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/21140
[#21437]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/21437
[#21477]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/21477
[#21609]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/21609
[#21684]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/21684
[#21712]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/21712
[#21716]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/21716
[#21717]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/21717
[#21754]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/21754
[#21767]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/21767
[#21768]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/21768
[#21771]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/21771
[#21774]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/21774
[#21777]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/21777
[#21778]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/21778
[#21780]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/21780
[#21793]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/21793
[#21799]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/21799
[#21813]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/21813
[#21816]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/21816
[#21820]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/21820
[#21823]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/21823
[#21829]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/21829
[#21830]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/21830
[#21842]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/21842
[#21847]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/21847
[#21859]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/21859
[#21864]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/21864
[#21866]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/21866
[#21894]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/21894
[#21895]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/21895
[#21896]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/21896
[#21900]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/21900
[#22205]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22205
[#22210]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22210
[#22217]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22217
[#22218]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22218
[#22220]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22220
[#22221]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22221
[#22222]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22222
[#22230]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22230
[#22235]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22235
[#22237]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22237
[#22242]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22242
[#22244]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22244
[#22245]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22245
[#22278]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22278
[#22281]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22281
[#22284]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22284
[#22291]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22291
[#22307]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22307
[#22309]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22309
[#22310]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22310
[#22314]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22314
[#22316]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22316
[#22319]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22319
[#22323]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22323
[#22324]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22324
[#22325]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22325
[#22326]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22326
[#22327]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22327
[#22338]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22338
[#22365]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22365
[#22375]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22375
[#22389]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22389
[#22391]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22391
[#22392]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22392
[#22393]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22393
[#22397]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22397
[#22398]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22398
[#22401]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22401
[#22402]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22402
[#22404]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22404
[#22416]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22416
[#22429]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22429
[#22433]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22433
[#22438]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22438
[#22442]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22442
[#22449]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22449
[#22455]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22455
[#22460]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22460
[#22470]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22470
[#22471]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22471
[#22474]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22474
[#22487]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22487
[#22495]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22495
[#22500]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22500
[#22502]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22502
[#22507]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22507
[#22511]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22511
[#22514]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22514
[#22516]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22516
[#22517]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22517
[#22518]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22518
[#22531]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22531
[#22534]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22534
[#22535]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22535
[#22542]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22542
[#22549]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22549
[#22551]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22551
[#22552]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22552
[#22570]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22570
[#22577]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22577
[#22601]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22601
[#22608]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22608
[#22614]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22614
[#22619]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22619
[#22620]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22620
[#22626]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22626
[#22627]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22627
[#22637]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22637
[#22648]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22648
[#22653]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22653
[#22658]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22658
[#22659]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22659
[#22667]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22667
[#22672]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22672
[#22674]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22674
[#22679]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22679
[#22683]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22683
[#22684]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22684
[#22690]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22690
[#22693]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22693
[#22703]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22703
[#22705]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22705
[#22709]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22709
[#22711]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22711
[#22718]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22718
[#22728]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22728
[#22729]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22729
[#22735]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22735
[#22746]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22746
[#22753]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22753
[#22848]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22848
[#22881]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22881
[#22894]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22894
[#22897]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22897
[#22903]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22903
[#22906]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22906
[#22935]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22935
[#22948]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22948
[#22971]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22971
[#22983]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22983
[#23003]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23003
[#23013]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23013
[#23019]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23019
[#23024]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23024
[#23041]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23041
[#23046]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23046
[#23062]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23062
[#23081]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23081
[#23089]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23089
[#23090]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23090
[#23150]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23150
[#23153]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23153
