_includes/common/basic-terms.md, before:

{% if page.cloud == true %}
  {% assign link_prefix = "../cockroachcloud/" %}
{% else %}
  {% assign link_prefix = "../../cockroachcloud/" %}
{% endif %}

## CockroachDB Cloud terms

### Organization
An authorization hierarchy rooted in a billing account. All {{ site.data.products.db }} database clusters belong to an organization. The user of the billing account at the root creates or invites other admin users to the organization.

### User
A {{ site.data.products.db }} user belongs to one or more organizations, either as an `admin` or `developer`. Note *organization user* is distinct from *SQL user/role* on any given cluster.

### {{ site.data.products.serverless }} cluster
A CockroachDB cluster deployed on request for a specific customer in *shared* network and compute infrastrucutre.

### {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster
A CockroachDB cluster deployed on request for a specific customer, in a cloud provider's network and compute infrastructure *dedicated* to that customer, which can be distributed over multiple regions for added disaster-resilience. In addition to infrastructure isolation, dedicated clusters can be customized with advanced network, identity-management, and encryption-related security features.

### Request Unit (RU)
Represents the compute and I/O resources used by a query. All database operations in {{ site.data.products.serverless }} cost a certain amount of RUs depending on the resources used. For example, a "small read" might cost 2 RUs, and a "large read" such as a full table scan with indexes could cost a large number of RUs. You can see how many Request Units your cluster has used on the [Cluster Overview]({{ link_prefix }}serverless-cluster-management.html#view-cluster-overview) page.

### Spend limit
The maximum amount of money you want to spend on a cluster in a particular billing period. The amount you are billed is based on the resources the cluster used during that billing period. A cluster's budget is allocated across storage and burst performance.

### Baseline performance
The minimum compute and I/O performance that you can expect from your cluster at all times. This is 100 RUs per second for all Serverless clusters (free and paid). The actual usage of a cluster may be lower than the baseline performance depending on application traffic, because not every application will need 100 RUs per second at all times. When the cluster's usage is lower than the baseline, the cluster accumulates the unused RUs until the load on the cluster increases above the baseline.

### Burst performance
The ability of the Serverless cluster to perform above the baseline. Supporting application traffic that "bursts," i.e., can fluctuate above baseline traffic, is a key feature of Serverless clusters. Every Serverless cluster starts with a certain amount of burst performance capacity. If the actual usage of a cluster is lower than the baseline performance, the cluster can earn Request Units that can be used for burst performance for the rest of the month. 

### Storage
Disk space for permanently storing data over time. All data in {{ site.data.products.serverless }} is automatically replicated three times and distributed across Availability Zones to survive outages. Storage is measured in units of GiB-months, which is the amount of data stored multiplied by how long it was stored. Storing 10 GiB for a month and storing 1 GiB for 10 months are both 10 GiB-months. The storage you see in the [Cluster Overview]({{ link_prefix }}serverless-cluster-management.html#view-cluster-overview) page is the amount of data before considering the replication multiplier.

Commit message:

wip
fix links to migrated content

wip

fix links

fix links

add redirect for managing-access

fix links

fix links and change console admin to org admin

fix links

fix links

fix title

wip

fix link

fix link

fix link

fix link

fix link

fix links

fix links

fix links

fix links

fix links

fix links

fix link, update reference to pre-FGAC roles

_includes/common/basic-terms.md, after:

{% if page.cloud == true %}
  {% assign link_prefix = "../cockroachcloud/" %}
{% else %}
  {% assign link_prefix = "../../cockroachcloud/" %}
{% endif %}

## CockroachDB Cloud terms

### Organization

An authorization hierarchy rooted in a billing account. All {{ site.data.products.db }} database clusters belong to an organization. The user of the billing account at the root creates or invites other admin users to the organization.

Learn more: [Overview of the CockroachDB Cloud two-level authorization model]({{ link_prefix }}authorization.html#overview-of-the-cockroachdb-cloud-two-level-authorization-model)

### User
A {{ site.data.products.db }} organization user belongs to one or more organizations

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
The concept of *Organization user* is distinct from *SQL user/role* on any given cluster.

Learn more: [Overview of the CockroachDB Cloud two-level authorization model]({{ link_prefix }}authorization.html#overview-of-the-cockroachdb-cloud-two-level-authorization-model)
{{site.data.alerts.end}}




### {{ site.data.products.serverless }} cluster
A CockroachDB cluster deployed on request for a specific customer in *shared* network and compute infrastrucutre.

### {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster
A CockroachDB cluster deployed on request for a specific customer, in a cloud provider's network and compute infrastructure *dedicated* to that customer, which can be distributed over multiple regions for added disaster-resilience. In addition to infrastructure isolation, dedicated clusters can be customized with advanced network, identity-management, and encryption-related security features.

### Request Unit (RU)
Represents the compute and I/O resources used by a query. All database operations in {{ site.data.products.serverless }} cost a certain amount of RUs depending on the resources used. For example, a "small read" might cost 2 RUs, and a "large read" such as a full table scan with indexes could cost a large number of RUs. You can see how many Request Units your cluster has used on the [Cluster Overview]({{ link_prefix }}serverless-cluster-management.html#view-cluster-overview) page.

### Spend limit
The maximum amount of money you want to spend on a cluster in a particular billing period. The amount you are billed is based on the resources the cluster used during that billing period. A cluster's budget is allocated across storage and burst performance.

### Baseline performance
The minimum compute and I/O performance that you can expect from your cluster at all times. This is 100 RUs per second for all Serverless clusters (free and paid). The actual usage of a cluster may be lower than the baseline performance depending on application traffic, because not every application will need 100 RUs per second at all times. When the cluster's usage is lower than the baseline, the cluster accumulates the unused RUs until the load on the cluster increases above the baseline.

### Burst performance
The ability of the Serverless cluster to perform above the baseline. Supporting application traffic that "bursts," i.e., can fluctuate above baseline traffic, is a key feature of Serverless clusters. Every Serverless cluster starts with a certain amount of burst performance capacity. If the actual usage of a cluster is lower than the baseline performance, the cluster can earn Request Units that can be used for burst performance for the rest of the month. 

### Storage
Disk space for permanently storing data over time. All data in {{ site.data.products.serverless }} is automatically replicated three times and distributed across Availability Zones to survive outages. Storage is measured in units of GiB-months, which is the amount of data stored multiplied by how long it was stored. Storing 10 GiB for a month and storing 1 GiB for 10 months are both 10 GiB-months. The storage you see in the [Cluster Overview]({{ link_prefix }}serverless-cluster-management.html#view-cluster-overview) page is the amount of data before considering the replication multiplier.
