## v25.2.0-rc.1

Release Date: May 12, 2025

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v25-2-0-rc-1-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- Non-integer array indices are now supported in JSONPath queries (e.g., `SELECT jsonb_path_query('[1, 2, 3]', '$[2.5]');`). Indices are rounded toward 0.

- The `vector_l2_ops` operator class can now be specified for a vector index. Because `vector_l2_ops` is the default, it is possible to omit the operator class from an index definition.

- When creating a vector index with the `USING` syntax, `hnsw` can now be specified as the index type, although a `cspann` vector index is still provided. This change increases compatibility with third-party tools.

- Added support for numeric JSONPath methods `.abs()`, `.floor()`, `.ceiling()`. For example, `SELECT jsonb_path_query('-0.5', '$.abs()');`.

- Disabled `IMPORT INTO` for tables with vector indexes, because importing into vector indexes is not implemented.

- Added support for `like_regex` flags in JSONPath queries. For example, `SELECT jsonb_path_query('{}', '"a" like_regex ".*" flag "i"');`.

- Vector index creation is now prevented until the entire cluster upgrade has been finalized on v25.2 or later.


<h3 id="v25-2-0-rc-1-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- `NULL` vectors can now be inserted into tables with vector indexes.

- Fixed a bug that caused vector indexes to return incorrect or no results from a standby reader in a physical cluster replication (PCR) setup. This bug existed in alpha versions of v25.2 and in v25.2.0-beta.1.

- Fixed a bug that allowed a set-returning PL/pgSQL function to be created before the version change was finalized. This bug existed in v25.2 alpha and beta releases.

- Fixed a bug where CockroachDB could encounter an internal error when fetching from the `WITH HOLD` cursor with `FETCH FIRST` and `FETCH ABSOLUTE`. The bug was only present in v25.2 alpha and beta releases.


<h3 id="v25-2-0-rc-1-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- Some internal queries executed by the jobs system are now less likely to perform full table scans of the `system.jobs` table, making them more efficient. This change can be reverted by disabling the `jobs.avoid_full_scans_in_find_running_jobs.enabled` cluster setting.


<h3 id="v25-2-0-rc-1-miscellaneous">Miscellaneous</h3>

- SQL queries run on the source cluster by logical data replication (LDR) and physical cluster replication (PCR) will account to internal metrics like `sql.statements.active.internal` instead of the metrics like `sql.statements.active` that are used to monitor application workload.
