## v25.2.12

Release Date: February 11, 2026

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v25-2-12-general-changes">General changes</h3>

- Changefeeds now support the `partition_alg` option for specifying a kafka partitioning algorithm. Currently `fnv-1a` (default) and `murmur2` are supported. The option is only valid on kafka v2 sinks. This is protected by the cluster setting `changefeed.partition_alg.enabled`. An example usage: `SET CLUSTER SETTING changefeed.partition_alg.enabled=true; CREATE CHANGEFEED ... INTO 'kafka://...' WITH partition_alg='murmur2';` Note that if a changefeed is created using the `murmur2` algorithm, and then the cluster setting is disabled, the changefeed continues using the `murmur2` algorithm unless the changefeed is altered to use a differed `partition_alg`.

<h3 id="v25-2-12-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a deadlock that could occur when a statistics creation task panicked.
- Fixed a bug where dropping a trigger on a table with a self-referencing foreign key could cause a missing reference between the objects.
- Fixed a bug where `IMPORT` with Avro data using `OCF` format could silently lose data if the underlying storage (e.g., S3) returned an error during read. Such errors are now properly reported. Other formats (specified via `data_as_binary_records` and `data_as_json_records` options) are unaffected. The bug has been present since approximately v20.1.
- Fixed an error that occurred when using generic
  plan that generates a lookup join on indexes containing identity
  computed columns.

<h3 id="v25-2-12-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- Added a new session variable, `distsql_prevent_partitioning_soft_limited_scans`, which, when true, prevents scans with soft limits from being planned as multiple TableReaders by the physical planner. This should decrease the initial setup costs of some fully-distributed query plans.

<h3 id="v25-2-12-miscellaneous">Miscellaneous</h3>

- `kv.transaction.write_buffering.enabled` is removed from the public cluster settings to better reflect its preview status.
