---
title: Computed Columns
summary: A computed column stores data generated by an expression included in the column definition.
toc: false
---

<span class="version-tag">New in v2.0:</span> A computed column stores data generated from other columns by an [expression](sql-expressions.html) that's included in the column definition.

<div id="toc"></div>

## Why use computed columns?

Computed columns are especially useful when used with partitioning or [`JSONB`](jsonb.html) columns.

**Partitioning** requires that partitions are defined using columns that are a prefix of the [primary key](primary-key.html). In the case of geo-partitioning, some applications will want to collapse the number of possible values in this column, to make certain classes of queries more performant. For example, if a users table has a country and state column, then a CockroachDB operator could make a stored computed column locality with a reduced domain for use in partitioning. For more information, see the [partitioning example](#create-a-table-with-geo-partitions-and-a-computed-column) below.

**JSONB** columns are used for storing semi-structured `JSONB` data. When the table's primary information is stored in `JSONB`, it's useful to index a particular field of the `JSONB` document. In particular, computed columns allow for the following use case: a two-column table with a `PRIMARY KEY` column and a `payload` column, whose primary key is computed as some field from the `payload` column. This alleviates the need to manually separate your JSON blobs from your primary keys. For more information, see the [`JSONB` example](#create-a-table-with-a-jsonb-column-and-a-computed-column) below.

## Considerations

Computed columns:

- Cannot be added once a table is created.
- Cannot reference other computer columns.
- Behave like any other column, with the exception that they cannot be written to directly.
- Are mutually exclusive with [`DEFAULT`](default-value.html).

## Creation

Computed columns can only be added at the time of [table creation](create-table.html). Use the following syntax:

~~~
column_name <type> AS <expr> [ STORED | VIRTUAL]
~~~

Parameter | Description
----------|------------
`column_name` | The [name/identifier](keywords-and-identifiers.html#identifiers) of the computed column.
`<type>` | The [data type](data-types.html) of the computed column.
`<expr>` | The pure [expression](sql-expressions.html) used to compute column values. Any functions marked as `impure`, such as `now()` or `nextval()` cannot be used.
`STORED` | _(Default)_ The computed column is stored alongside other columns. This is required if the column appears in the [Primary Key](primary-key.html).
`VIRTUAL` | The computed column is only computed when rows are read.

## Examples

### Create a table with a computed column

{% include computed-columns/simple.md %}

### Create a table with geo-partitions and a computed column

{% include computed-columns/partitioning.md %} The `locality` values can then be used for geo-partitioning.

### Create a table with a `JSONB` column and a computed column

{% include computed-columns/jsonb.md %}

## See Also

- [Value Expressions](sql-expressions.html)
- [Information Schema](information-schema.html)
- [`CREATE TABLE`](create-table.html)
- [`JSONB`](jsonb.html)

<!-- - [Define Table Partitions (Enterprise)](partitioning.html) -->
