---
title: ALTER TABLE ... EXPERIMENTAL_AUDIT
summary: Use the `EXPERIMENTAL_AUDIT` subcommand to turn SQL audit logging on or off for a table.
toc: false
---

`EXPERIMENTAL_AUDIT` is a subcommand of [`ALTER TABLE`](alter-table.html) that is used to turn SQL audit logging on or off for a table.

The audit logs contain detailed information about queries being executed against your system, including:

- Full text of the query (which may include personally identifiable information (PII))
- Date/Time
- Client address
- Application name

For a detailed description of exactly what is logged, see the [Audit Log File Format](#log-file-format) section below.

<div id="toc"></div>

## Synopsis

<section>
{% include sql/v2.0/diagrams/experimental_audit.html %}
</section>

## Required Privileges

Only the `root` user can enable audit logs on a table.

## Parameters

| Parameter    | Description                                              |
|--------------+----------------------------------------------------------|
| `READ`       | Log all table reads to the audit log file.               |
| `WRITE`      | Log all table writes to the audit log file.              |
| `OFF`        | Turn off audit logging.                                  |
| `table_name` | The name of the table you want to create audit logs for. |

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
As of version 2.0, this command logs all reads and writes, and both the `READ` and  `WRITE` parameters are required (as shown in the [examples](#examples) below).

In a future release, this should change to allow logging only reads, only writes, or both.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Examples

Let's say you have a  `customers` table that contains personally identifiable information (PII). To turn on audit logs for that table, run the following command:

~~~ sql
ALTER TABLE customers EXPERIMENTAL_AUDIT SET READ WRITE;
~~~

Now, every access of customer data is added to the audit log with a line that looks like the following:

~~~
I180211 07:30:48.832004 317 sql/exec_log.go:90  [client=127.0.0.1:62503,user=root,n1] 13 exec "cockroach" {"customers"[53]:READ} "SELECT * FROM customers" {} 123.45 12 OK
I180211 07:30:48.832004 317 sql/exec_log.go:90  [client=127.0.0.1:62503,user=root,n1] 13 exec "cockroach" {"customers"[53]:READ} "SELECT nonexistent FROM customers" {} 0.123 12 ERROR
~~~

To turn off logging, issue the following command:

~~~ sql
ALTER TABLE customers EXPERIMENTAL_AUDIT SET OFF;
~~~

For a description of the log file format, see the [Audit Log File Format](#log-file-format) section below.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
For a more detailed example, see [How to use SQL Audit Logs](how-to-use-sql-audit-logs.html).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

<a name="log-file-format"></a>

## Audit Log File Format

The audit log file format is as shown below.  The numbers above each column are not part of the format; they correspond to the descriptions that follow.

~~~
[1]     [2]             [3] [4]                 [5a]                     [5b]       [5c]  [6]  [7a] [7b]        [7c]            [7d]                         [7e]  [7f]  [7g] [7h]
I180211 07:30:48.832004 317 sql/exec_log.go:90  [client=127.0.0.1:62503, user=root, n1]   13   exec "cockroach" {"ab"[53]:READ} "SELECT nonexistent FROM ab" {}    0.123 12   ERROR
~~~

1. Date
2. Time (in UTC)
3. Goroutine ID
4. The place in the source code that generated the log line
5. Logging tags
   - a. Client address
   - b. Username
   - c. Node ID
6. Log entry counter (Monotonically increasing)
7. Log message:
   - a. Label indicating where the data was generated (useful for troubleshooting)
   - b. Current value of the [`application_name`](set-vars.html) session setting
   - c. Logging trigger:
       - `"{}"` for execution logs, since all activities are added to the execution log
       - The list of triggering tables and access modes for audit logs, since only certain (read/write) activities are added to the audit log
   - d. Full text of the query (Note: May contain PII)
   - e. Placeholder values, if any
   - f. Query execution time (in milliseconds)
   - g. Number of rows produced
   - h. Status of the query
       - `OK` for success
       - `ERROR` or the full error message otherwise

## Audit Log File Storage Location

By default, audit logs are stored in the same directory as the other logs generated by CockroachDB.

To store the audit log files in a specific directory, pass the `--sql-audit-dir` flag to [`cockroach start`](start-a-node.html).

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
If you require audit log files to be guaranteed to exist, point `--sql-audit-dir` at a directory that has permissions set so that only CockroachDB can create/delete files.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## See Also

- [How to use SQL Audit Logs](how-to-use-sql-audit-logs.html)
- [`ALTER TABLE`](alter-table.html)
- [`cockroach start` logging flags](start-a-node.html)
