---
title: What&#39;s New in v1.1
toc: false
summary: Additions and changes in CockroachDB version v1.1
redirect_from: /v1.0.html
---

## DATE

With the release of CockroachDB v1.1, we’ve included support for faster migrations from legacy databases for developers, simplified cluster management for operators, and improved performance in real-world environments. Read about the implications of these changes in [this blog post](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/blog/cockroachdb-1-0-release/), checkout a more granular [summary of new SQL, CLI, and Admin UI features](#summary) below, and then [upgrade to CockroachDB v1.1](../v1.1/upgrade-cockroach-version.html).

Get future release notes emailed to you:

<div class="hubspot-install-form install-form-1 clearfix">
    <script>
        hbspt.forms.create({
            css: '',
            cssClass: 'install-form',
            portalId: '1753393',
            formId: '39686297-81d2-45e7-a73f-55a596a8d5ff',
            formInstanceId: 1,
            target: '.install-form-1'
        });
    </script>
</div>

## Downloads

<div id="os-tabs" class="clearfix">
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v1.1.0.darwin-10.9-amd64.tgz"><button id="mac" data-eventcategory="mac-binary-release-notes">Mac</button></a>
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v1.1.0.linux-amd64.tgz"><button id="linux" data-eventcategory="linux-binary-release-notes">Linux</button></a>
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v1.1.0.windows-6.2-amd64.zip"><button id="windows" data-eventcategory="windows-binary-release-notes">Windows</button></a>
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v1.1.0.src.tgz"><button id="source" data-eventcategory="source-release-notes">Source</button></a>
</div>

## Summary

This section summarizes the most significant, user-facing changes included in v1.1. For a complete list of changes, including bug fixes and performance improvements, see the [release notes](index.html/#testing-releases) for previous testing releases.

- [SQL Statements](#sql-statements)
- [SQL Types](#sql-types)
- [Cockroach Commands](#cockroach-commands)
- [Admin UI](#admin-ui)
- [Known Limitations](#known-limitations)

### SQL Statements

Statement | Description
----------|------------
[`IMPORT TABLE`](../v1.1/import-table.html) | Use this new statement to import an entire table's data into a running cluster by loading CSV files.
[`SHOW QUERIES`](../v1.1/show-queries.html)<br>[`CANCEL QUERY`](../v1.1/cancel-query.html) | Use these new statements to monitor the progress of active queries, and, if necesssry, cancel long-running queries causing unwanted resource consumption.
[`SHOW SESSIONS`](../v1.1/show-sessions.html) | Use this new statement to monitor the overall state of client connections and identify those that may need further investigation or adjustment.
[`SHOW JOBS`](show-jobs.html) | Use this new statement to monitor the progress of schema changes and enterprise backup and restores.
[`CANCEL JOB`](../v1.1/cancel-job.html)<br>[`PAUSE JOB`](../v1.1/pause-job.html)<br>[`RESUME JOB`](../v1.1/resume-job.html) | Use these new statements to cancel or pause and then resume enterprise backups and restores.
[`SHOW BACKUPS`](../v1.1/show-backups.html) | Use this new statement to list the contents of an enterprise backup.
[`DROP USER`](../v1.1/drop-user.html) | Use this new statement to remove one or more SQL users. This features is equivalent to the existing [`cockroach user rm`](../v1.1/create-and-manage-users.html) command.
[`DROP DATABASE`](../v1.1/drop-database.html) | Use the new `CASCADE` option to drop all tables and views in a database as well as all objects (such as [constraints](constraints.html) and [views](views.html)) that depend on those tables. This option does not list objects it drops, so should be used cautiously.
[`INSERT`](../v1.1/insert.html#update-values-on-conflict) | Use a `WHERE` clause with `ON CONFLICT` to conditionally apply updates that conflict a Unique constraint on one or more columns.

### SQL Types

Type | Description
-----|------------
[`ARRAY`](../v1.1/array.html) | Use this new data type to store 1-dimensional, 1-indexed, homogenous arrays of any non-array data type.
[`UUIC`](../v1.1/uuid.html) | Use this new data type to store 128-bit values that are globally unique. This type is recommended for [auto-generating unique row IDs](../v1.1/uuid.html#create-a-table-with-auto-generated-unique-row-ids).

### Cockroach Commands

### Admin UI

### Known Limitations

For information about limitations we've identified in CockroachDB v1.1, with suggested workarounds where applicable, see [Known Limitations](../v1.1/known-limitations.html).
