---
title: What&#39;s New in v1.1.0
toc: true
summary: Additions and changes in CockroachDB version v1.1.0.
---

## Oct 12, 2017

With the release of CockroachDB v1.1.0, we’ve included support for faster migrations from other databases for developers, simplified cluster management for operators, and improved performance in real-world environments.

- Read more about these changes in the [v1.1 blog post](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/blog/cockroachdb-1dot1/).
- Check out a [summary of backwards-incompatible changes and new features](#summary).
- Then [upgrade to CockroachDB v1.1.0](../v1.1/upgrade-cockroach-version.html). The process of upgrading from v1.0.x to v1.1.0 is different than upgrading within the v1.0.x series, so please follow the upgrade instructions carefully.

Get future release notes emailed to you:

<div class="hubspot-install-form install-form-1 clearfix">
    <script>
        hbspt.forms.create({
            css: '',
            cssClass: 'install-form',
            portalId: '1753393',
            formId: '39686297-81d2-45e7-a73f-55a596a8d5ff',
            formInstanceId: 1,
            target: '.install-form-1'
        });
    </script>
</div>

## Downloads

<div id="os-tabs" class="clearfix">
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v1.1.0.darwin-10.9-amd64.tgz"><button id="mac" data-eventcategory="mac-binary-release-notes">Mac</button></a>
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v1.1.0.linux-amd64.tgz"><button id="linux" data-eventcategory="linux-binary-release-notes">Linux</button></a>
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v1.1.0.src.tgz"><button id="source" data-eventcategory="source-release-notes">Source</button></a>
</div>

## Summary

This section summarizes the most significant user-facing changes in v1.1.0. For a complete list of changes, including bug fixes and performance improvements, see the [release notes](index.html#testing-releases) for previous testing releases.

- [Backwards-Incompatible Changes](#backwards-incompatible-changes)
- [SQL Statements](#sql-statements)
- [SQL Types](#sql-types)
- [Cockroach Commands](#cockroach-commands)
- [Admin UI](#admin-ui)
- [Documentation](#documentation)
- [Known Limitations](#known-limitations)

<style>
    table td:first-child {
        min-width: 225px;
    }
</style>

### Backwards-Incompatible Changes

Change | Description
-------|------------
[`DROP DATABASE`](../v1.1/drop-database.html) | This statement no longer drops non-empty databases unless the `CASCADE` modifier is added.
[`cockroach start`](../v1.1/start-a-node.html) | The `--max-sql-memory` and `--cache` flags now default to 128MiB instead of 25% of physical memory. These new defaults are reasonable for local development clusters. However, for production deployments, they should be increased to 25% or higher. See [Recommended Production Settings](../v1.1/recommended-production-settings.html#cache-and-sql-memory-size-changed-in-v1-1) for more details.<br><br>Also, if the server's own hostname cannot be resolved, CockroachDB reports an error at startup instead of starting a node that will be unable to participate in a cluster. Local test clusters may need to pass `--host=localhost` to avoid this error.
[Various names](../v1.1/keywords-and-identifiers.html#rules-for-identifiers) | Database, table, view, and column names in double quotes are now case-sensitive (as in PostgreSQL).
[`DROP COLUMN`](../v1.1/drop-column.html) | It is no longer possible to drop columns in tables depended on by [views](../v1.1/views.html). This is an overly-broad change to avoid schema changes that might break views; it will be narrowed in the future.
`EXPLAIN (DEBUG)`<br>`EXPLAIN(TRACE)` | These [`EXPLAIN`](../v1.1/explain.html) options have been removed. They have been replaced by the new [`SHOW TRACE`](../v1.1/show-trace.html) statement.

### SQL Statements

Statement | Description
----------|------------
[`IMPORT`](../v1.1/import.html) | Use this new statement to import an entire table's data into a running cluster by loading CSV files.
[`SHOW QUERIES`](../v1.1/show-queries.html)<br>[`CANCEL QUERY`](../v1.1/cancel-query.html) | Use these new statements to monitor the progress of active queries, and, if necessary, cancel long-running queries causing unwanted resource consumption.
[`SHOW SESSIONS`](../v1.1/show-sessions.html) | Use this new statement to monitor the overall state of client connections and identify those that may need investigation or adjustment.
[`SHOW JOBS`](../v1.1/show-jobs.html) | Use this new statement to monitor the progress of schema changes and enterprise backups and restores.
[`CANCEL JOB`](../v1.1/cancel-job.html)<br>[`PAUSE JOB`](../v1.1/pause-job.html)<br>[`RESUME JOB`](../v1.1/resume-job.html) | Use these new statements to cancel, pause, or resume enterprise backups and restores.
[`SHOW BACKUP`](../v1.1/show-backup.html) | Use this new statement to list the contents of an enterprise backup.
[`SHOW TRACE`](../v1.1/show-trace.html) | Use this new statement to execute a target statement and then return a trace of its actions through all of CockroachDB's software layers.
[`DROP USER`](../v1.1/drop-user.html) | Use this new statement to remove one or more SQL users. This features is equivalent to the existing [`cockroach user rm`](../v1.1/create-and-manage-users.html) command.
[`RESET`](../v1.1/reset-vars.html)<br> | Use this new statement to reset a session variable to its default value. You can also use the new [`SET .. TO DEFAULT`](../v1.1/set-vars.html#reset-a-variable-to-its-default-value) option.
[`RESET CLUSTER SETTING`](../v1.1/reset-cluster-setting.html) | Use this new statement to reset a cluster setting to its default value. You can also use the new [`SET CLUSTER SETTING .. TO DEFAULT`](../v1.1/set-cluster-setting.html#reset-a-setting-to-its-default-value) option.
[`DROP DATABASE`](../v1.1/drop-database.html) | Use the new `CASCADE` option to drop all tables and views in a database as well as all objects that depend on those tables, such as [constraints](../v1.1/constraints.html) and [views](../v1.1/views.html). This option does not list objects it drops, so should be used cautiously.
[`INSERT`](../v1.1/insert.html#update-values-on-conflict) | Use a `WHERE` clause with `ON CONFLICT` to conditionally apply updates that conflict with a Unique constraint on one or more columns.

### SQL Types

Type | Description
-----|------------
[`ARRAY`](../v1.1/array.html) | Use this new data type to store 1-dimensional, 1-indexed, homogeneous arrays of any non-array data type.
[`UUID`](../v1.1/uuid.html) | Use this new data type to store 128-bit values that are globally unique. This type is recommended for [auto-generating unique row IDs](../v1.1/uuid.html#create-a-table-with-auto-generated-unique-row-ids).

### Cockroach Commands

Command | Description
--------|------------
[`init`](../v1.1/initialize-a-cluster.html) | Use this new command to perform a one-time initialization of a new multi-node cluster. For a full walk-through of the cluster startup and initialization process, see [Manual Deployment](../v1.1/manual-deployment.html) or one of the [Cloud Deployment](../v1.1/cloud-deployment.html) tutorials.
[`node decommission`](../v1.1/view-node-details.html)<br>[`node recommission`](../v1.1/view-node-details.html) | Use these new subcommands of `cockroach node` to decommission nodes for permanent removal or recommission nodes that were accidentally decommissioned. See [Remove Nodes](../v1.1/remove-nodes.html) for more details.
[`start`](../v1.1/start-a-node.html) | When starting a node, the new `--max-disk-temp-storage` flag lets you set the maximum on-disk storage capacity available to store temporary data for SQL queries that exceed the memory budget. This ensures that JOINs, sorts, and other memory-intensive SQL operations are able to spill intermediate results to disk.
[`sql`](../v1.1/use-the-built-in-sql-client.html) | When starting the built-in SQL client, the new `--echo-sql` flag reveals the SQL statements sent implicitly by the command-line utility, and the new `--unsafe-updates` flag allows potentially unsafe statements, such as `DELETE` without a `WHERE` clause.<br><br>Within the interactive SQL shell, you can now get [interactive help about statements and functions](../v1.1/use-the-built-in-sql-client.html#sql-shell-help-new-in-v1-1) and you can set [new SQL shell options](../v1.1/use-the-built-in-sql-client.html#sql-shell-options-changed-in-v1-1) to control how table rows get printed, to reveal the statements sent implicitly by the SQL shell, to reveal the time a query takes to complete, and to return the current status of a transaction.<br><br>Also, when the built-in SQL client connects or reconnects to a node, the [welcome text](../v1.1/use-the-built-in-sql-client.html#sql-shell-welcome-changed-in-v1-1) it prints now includes version and cluster ID details.
[`dump`](../v1.1/sql-dump.html) | Table and view schemas are now dumped in the order in which they can successfully be recreated.<br><br>Also, the new `--echo-sql` flag reveals the SQL statements sent implicitly by the command-line utility.
[`zone`](../v1.1/configure-replication-zones.html) | The new `--echo-sql` flag reveals the SQL statements sent implicitly by the command-line utility.

### Admin UI

Area | Description
-----|------------
[Jobs Page](../v1.1/admin-ui-jobs-page.html) | This new page in the Admin UI shows the user, description, creation time, and status of each backup and restore job, as well as schema changes performed across all nodes in the cluster.
[Nodes List](../v1.1/admin-ui-access-and-navigate.html#decommissioned-nodes) | Nodes that have been decommissioned for permanent removal are now listed in a separate table.

### Documentation

Topic | Description
------|------------
[CockroachDB Architecture](../v1.1/architecture/overview.html) | This new section of the documentation provides an introduction to CockroachDB internals, with detailed explanations of each layer of the software.
[Admin UI](../v1.1/admin-ui-overview.html) | This new section of the documentation explains how to understand and use the Admin UI to monitor and optimize cluster performance.
[Parallel Statement Execution](../v1.1/parallel-statement-execution.html) | CockroachDB supports parallel execution of independent `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, `UPSERT`, and `DELETE` statements within a single transaction. This new topic explains why, how, and when to use this feature.
[Cross-Cloud Migration](../v1.1/demo-automatic-cloud-migration.html) | This new topic walks you through a local simulation of migrating data from one cloud to another without any service interruption. An accompanying [blog post](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/blog/cross-cloud-migration/) features a live demonstration of the process.
[Recommended Production Settings](../v1.1/recommended-production-settings.html) | This topic now provides improved hardware recommendations for a CockroachDB cluster and expanded details on how CockroachDB handles unsynchronized clocks.
[Rotate Security Certificates](../v1.1/rotate-certificates.html) | This new topic shows you how to rotate security certificates without restarting nodes.
[Stop a Node](../v1.1/stop-a-node.html#how-it-works) | This topic now explains what happens when a node is temporarily stopped.
[Contribute to CockroachDB](https://wiki.crdb.io/wiki/spaces/CRDB/pages/73204033/Contributing+to+CockroachDB) | This topic now gives external contributors guidelines on finding a project, determining its complexity, and learning what to expect in collaborations with the Cockroach Labs team.

### Known Limitations

For information about limitations we've identified in CockroachDB v1.1, with suggested workarounds where applicable, see [Known Limitations](../v1.1/known-limitations.html).
