---
title: What&#39;s New in v19.2.7
toc: true
summary: Additions and changes in CockroachDB version v19.2.7 since version v19.2.6
docs_area: releases 
---

## May 20, 2020

This page lists additions and changes in v19.2.7 since v19.2.6.

- For a comprehensive summary of features in v19.2, see the [v19.2 GA release notes](v19.2.0.html).
- To upgrade to v19.2, see [Upgrade to CockroachDB v19.2](../v19.2/upgrade-cockroach-version.html)

{{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}
{% include /v19.2/alerts/warning-a58932.md %}
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

{{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}
{% include /v19.2/alerts/warning-a63162.md %}
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

Get future release notes emailed to you:

{% include_cached marketo.html %}

### Downloads

<div id="os-tabs" class="clearfix os-tabs_button-outline-primary">
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v19.2.7.darwin-10.9-amd64.tgz"><button id="mac" data-eventcategory="mac-binary-release-notes">Mac</button></a>
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v19.2.7.linux-amd64.tgz"><button id="linux" data-eventcategory="linux-binary-release-notes">Linux</button></a>
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v19.2.7.windows-6.2-amd64.zip"><button id="windows" data-eventcategory="windows-binary-release-notes">Windows</button></a>
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v19.2.7.src.tgz"><button id="source" data-eventcategory="source-release-notes">Source</button></a>
</div>

### Docker image

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~shell
$ docker pull cockroachdb/cockroach:v19.2.7
~~~


### Backward-incompatible changes

- Prior to this patch, the phase of server shutdown responsible for range lease transfers to other nodes would give up after 10000 attempts of transferring replica leases away, regardless of the value of `server.shutdown.lease_transfer_wait`. The limit of 10,000 attempts has been removed, so that now only the maximum duration `server.shutdown.lease_transfer_wait` applies. [#47691][#47691]
- The textual error and warning messages displayed by [`cockroach quit`](../v19.2/cockroach-quit.html) under various circumstances have been updated. The message `ok` still indicates that the operation has likely succeeded. [#47691][#47691]
- [`cockroach quit`](../v19.2/cockroach-quit.html) now prints out progress details on its standard error stream, even when `--logtostderr` is not specified. Previously, nothing was printed on standard error. Scripts that wish to ignore this output can redirect the standard error stream. [#47691][#47691]
- The copy of `system` and `crdb_internal` tables extracted by [`cockroach debug zip`](../v19.2/cockroach-debug-zip.html) is now written using the TSV format (inside the ZIP file), instead of an ASCII-art table as previously. [#48098][#48098]

### General changes

- Prior to this patch, the phase of server shutdown responsible for range lease transfers to other nodes had a hard timeout of 5 seconds. This timeout is now configurable with the new [cluster setting](../v19.2/set-cluster-setting.html) `server.shutdown.lease_transfer_wait`. [#47691][#47691]

### SQL language changes

- Columns in the process of being added or removed to a table are now always set to their default or computed value if another transaction concurrently [inserts](../v19.2/insert.html), [updates](../v19.2/update.html), or [upserts](../v19.2/upsert.html) a row. This fixes an issue where a column being backfilled would not be properly set by concurrent transactions. [#47411][#47411]
- The `pg_collation`, `pg_proc`, and `pg_type` tables in `pg_catalog` no longer require privileges on any database in order for the data to be visible. [#48081][#48081]
- Histogram collection with [`CREATE STATISTICS`](../v19.2/create-statistics.html) is no longer supported on columns with type [`ARRAY`](../v19.2/array.html). Only row count, distinct count, and null count are collected for `ARRAY`-type columns. [#48344][#48344]
- CockroachDB now correctly reports the type length for the [`CHAR`](../v19.2/string.html) data type. [#48643][#48643]

### Command-line changes

- The time that [`cockroach quit`](../v19.2/cockroach-quit.html) waits client-side for the node to drain (i.e., remove existing clients and push range leases away) is now configurable with the flag `--drain-wait`. The default value for `--drain-wait` is `10 minutes`. Note that separate server-side timeouts still apply. Check the `server.shutdown.*` [cluster settings](../v19.2/set-cluster-setting.html) for details. [#47691][#47691]
- It is now possible to drain a node without shutting down the process, using [`cockroach node drain`](../v19.2/cockroach-node.html). This makes it easier to integrate CockroachDB with service managers and orchestration. It is safe to issue `cockroach node drain` and then separately stop the service via a process manager or orchestrator. Without this new command, there is a risk of misconfiguring the service manager to auto-restart the node after it shuts down via [`cockroach quit`](../v19.2/cockroach-quit.html). `cockroach node drain` also recognizes the new `--drain-wait` flag. [#47691][#47691]
- The commands `cockroach quit` and `cockroach node drain` now report a "work remaining" metric on their standard error stream. The value reduces until it reaches 0 to indicate that the graceful shutdown has completed server-side. [#47691][#47691]
- To support clusters that have been configured to use a cluster name, client commands such as [`cockroach init`](../v19.2/cockroach-init.html) and [`cockroach quit`](../v19.2/cockroach-quit.html) now support the `--cluster-name` and `--disable-cluster-name-verification` flags. Previously it was impossible to run such commands against nodes configured with the `--cluster-name` flag. [#48017][#48017]
- [`cockroach debug zip`](../v19.2/cockroach-debug-zip.html) now properly skips over fully decommissioned nodes. [#48095][#48095]
- [`cockroach debug zip`](../v19.2/cockroach-debug-zip.html) now tries multiple times to retrieve data using SQL if it encounters retry errors. [#48098][#48098]
- [`cockroach debug zip`](../v19.2/cockroach-debug-zip.html) now supports two command-line parameters: `--nodes` and `--exclude-nodes`. When specified, they control which nodes are inspected when gathering the data. This makes it possible to focus on a group of nodes of interest in a large cluster, or to exclude nodes that `cockroach debug zip` would have trouble reaching otherwise. Both flags accept a list of individual node IDs or ranges of node IDs, e.g., `--nodes=1,10,13-15`. [#48098][#48098]

### Bug fixes

- Previously, CockroachDB could incorrectly consider a non-`NULL` value from an interleaved parent table to be `NULL` when the interleaved child has a `NULL` value in the row with the corresponding index key. This bug has been fixed. [#47104][#47104]
- A data race on AST nodes for [`SELECT` statements](../v19.2/select-clause.html) that include a [`WINDOW` definition](../v19.2/window-functions.html#window-definitions) has been fixed. Previously, these queries could have returned incorrect results. [#47176][#47176]
- Previously, a panic could occur when [`SHOW RANGES`](../v19.2/show-ranges.html) or [`SHOW RANGE FOR ROW`](../v19.2/show-range-for-row.html) was called with a virtual table. This bug has been fixed. [#47516][#47516]
- Fixed incorrect results that could occur when casting negative intervals or timestamps to type decimal. [#47521][#47521]
- Previously, when the query was executed with the [row-by-row engine](../v19.2/vectorized-execution.html), CockroachDB could incorrectly return no output instead of returning a parsing error in queries with `count(*)`. This bug has been fixed. [#47486][#47486]
- Previously, CockroachDB incorrectly released the memory used in hash aggregation operations, which could lead to node crashes. This bug has been fixed. [#47519][#47519]
- Previously, [`PARTITION BY`](../v19.2/partition-by.html) and [`ORDER BY`](../v19.2/query-order.html) columns in window specifications lost qualifications when used inside [views](../v19.2/views.html). This bug has been fixed. [#47716][#47716]
- Fixed a bug where target column specifications in [`IMPORT INTO`](../v19.2/import-into.html) were ignored. [#47796][#47796]
- Columns named with reserved keywords and/or other special characters are now correctly handled. [#47796][#47796]
- CockroachDB will now avoid producing a severe "internal error" upon certain privilege check failures with `pg_catalog` [built-in functions](../v19.2/functions-and-operators.html). [#48243][#48243]
- Fixed a bug causing cascading [deletes](../v19.2/delete.html) to fail when deleting thousands of rows across interleaved tables. [#48287][#48287]
- Fixed a rare bug that could lead to data corruption or data loss if a replica was both the source of a snapshot, was being concurrently removed from the range, and if certain specific conditions exist inside RocksDB. [#48319][#48319]
- Fixed a rare bug where stats were not automatically generated for a new table. [#48028][#48028]
- Fixed a rare bug where stats refreshes could fail. CockroachDB now triggers stats refreshing after completing an [import](../v19.2/import.html) job, after the transaction finishes the [job](../v19.2/show-jobs.html) commits. [#48028][#48028]
- Fixed an error that occurred when statistics collection was explicitly requested on a column with type [`ARRAY`](../v19.2/array.html). [#48344][#48344]
- Fixed a rare bug causing a range to deadlock and all the writes to the respective range to timeout. [#48304][#48304]
- Fixed a bug causing HTTP requests to fail with error 503 "`transport: authentication handshake failed: io: read/write on closed pipe`" and continue failing until the node was restarted. [#48482][#48482]
- [`cockroach debug zip`](../v19.2/cockroach-debug-zip.html) can now successfully avoid out-of-memory errors when extracting very large `system` or `crdb_internal` tables. [#48098][#48098]
- [`cockroach debug zip`](../v19.2/cockroach-debug-zip.html) will now properly report an error if an error is encountered while writing the end of the output ZIP file. [#48098][#48098]
- Fixed a bug that caused vectorized queries on composite data types to occasionally return invalid data. [#48464][#48464]
- Previously, [`SHOW STATISTICS USING JSON`](../v19.2/show-statistics.html) output contained incorrect single quotes for strings with spaces inside histograms. This bug has been fixed. [#48545][#48545]
- Fixed a bug preventing [timestamps](../v19.2/timestamp.html) from being closed, which could result in failed follower reads or failure to observe resolved timestamps in [changefeeds](../v19.2/changefeed-for.html). [#48683][#48683]
- Fixed a bug that falsely indicated that `kv.closed_timestamp.max_behind_nanos` was almost always growing. [#48690][#48690]
- CockroachDB now prevents [dropping databases](../v19.2/drop-database.html) that contain tables that are currently offline due to [`IMPORT`](../v19.2/import.html) or [`RESTORE`](../v19.2/restore.html). Previously, dropping a database in this state could lead to a corrupted schema, which prevented running backups. [#48612][#48612]
- Fixed a bug that caused [`cockroach dump`](../v19.2/cockroach-dump.html) to erroneously include an additional [`CREATE UNIQUE INDEX "primary" ... INTERLEAVE IN PARENT`](../v19.2/create-index.html) statement in the dump output on tables with interleaved primary keys. This bug made it impossible to re-import dumped data without manual editing. [#48777][#48777]
- Fixed a bug that caused [`SHOW CREATE`](../v19.2/show-create.html) statements to sometimes show a [partitioning](../v19.2/partitioning.html) step for an index that was previously dropped. [#48767][#48767]
- Fixed a bug that caused [changefeeds](../v19.2/create-changefeed.html) that were created with a cursor, and that encounter a retryable error before writing their first checkpoint, to perform full-table backfills upon restart. [#48752][#48752]
- Fixed a bug that could cause canceled [changefeeds](../v19.2/create-changefeed.html) to not stop. [#48752][#48752]

### Performance improvements

- Fixed a bug in the histogram filtering logic of [the optimizer](../v19.2/cost-based-optimizer.html) which was causing inaccurate cardinality estimates for queries with equality predicates on [UUIDs](../v19.2/uuid.html) and [strings](../v19.2/string.html), as well as some other types. This bug has existed since histograms were first introduced into the optimizer in the v19.2.0 release. Fixing it improves the optimizer's cardinality estimates and results in better query plans in some cases. [#48625][#48625]
- Histograms used by the optimizer for query planning now have more accurate row counts per histogram bucket, particularly for columns that have many `NULL` values. This results in better plans in some cases. [#48645][#48645]
- Fixed a performance inefficiency in the [vectorized execution engine](../v19.2/vectorized-execution.html). This fix speeds up all queries that are executed with the vectorized engine, with most noticeable gains on the queries that output many rows. [#48733][#48733]


### Contributors

This release includes 47 merged PRs by 21 authors.
We would like to thank the following contributors from the CockroachDB community:

- Artem Barger (first-time contributor)
- Jason Brown (first-time contributor)

[#47104]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/47104
[#47176]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/47176
[#47411]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/47411
[#47486]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/47486
[#47516]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/47516
[#47519]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/47519
[#47521]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/47521
[#47665]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/47665
[#47691]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/47691
[#47716]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/47716
[#47796]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/47796
[#48017]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48017
[#48028]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48028
[#48081]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48081
[#48095]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48095
[#48098]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48098
[#48243]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48243
[#48287]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48287
[#48304]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48304
[#48319]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48319
[#48344]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48344
[#48464]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48464
[#48482]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48482
[#48545]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48545
[#48612]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48612
[#48625]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48625
[#48643]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48643
[#48645]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48645
[#48683]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48683
[#48690]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48690
[#48733]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48733
[#48752]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48752
[#48767]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48767
[#48777]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48777
