---
title: What&#39;s New in v19.1.9
toc: true
summary: Additions and changes in CockroachDB version v19.1.9 since version v19.1.8
sitemap: false
docs_area: releases 
---

## May 12, 2020

This page lists additions and changes in v19.1.9 since v19.1.8.

- For a comprehensive summary of features in v19.1, see the [v19.1 GA release notes](v19.1.0.html).
- To upgrade to v19.1, see [Upgrade to CockroachDB v19.1](../v19.1/upgrade-cockroach-version.html)

{{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}
{% include /v19.1/alerts/warning-a63162.md %}
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

Get future release notes emailed to you:

{% include_cached marketo.html %}

### Downloads

<div id="os-tabs" class="clearfix os-tabs_button-outline-primary">
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v19.1.9.darwin-10.9-amd64.tgz"><button id="mac" data-eventcategory="mac-binary-release-notes">Mac</button></a>
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v19.1.9.linux-amd64.tgz"><button id="linux" data-eventcategory="linux-binary-release-notes">Linux</button></a>
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v19.1.9.src.tgz"><button id="source" data-eventcategory="source-release-notes">Source</button></a>
</div>

### Docker image

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~shell
$ docker pull cockroachdb/cockroach:v19.1.9
~~~

### Backward-incompatible changes

- Previously, the phase of server shutdown responsible for range lease transfers to other nodes would give up after 10,000 attempts of transferring replica leases away, regardless of the value of `server.shutdown.lease_transfer_wait`. The limit of 10,000 attempts has been removed, so that now only the maximum duration `server.shutdown.lease_transfer_wait` applies. [#47698][#47698]
- The textual error and warning messages displayed by [`cockroach quit`](../v19.1/stop-a-node.html) under various circumstances have been updated. Meanwhile, the message "`ok`" remains as indicator that the operation has likely succeeded. [#47698][#47698]
- [`cockroach quit`](../v19.1/stop-a-node.html) now prints out progress details on its standard error stream, even when `--logtostderr` is not specified. Previously, nothing was printed on standard error. Scripts that wish to ignore this output can redirect the `stderr` stream. [#47698][#47698]

### Security updates

- Non-licensed users are now able to [add more principals](../v19.1/grant-roles.html) to the special superuser role/group `admin`. Note: [Creation of additional roles](../v19.1/create-role.html) is still a licensed feature. [#45396][#45396]

### General changes

- Previously, the phase of server shutdown responsible for range lease transfers to other nodes had a hard timeout of 5 seconds. This patch makes this timeout configurable via the new cluster setting `server.shutdown.lease_transfer_wait`. [#47698][#47698]

### SQL language changes

- It is now possible to use [`GRANT`](../v19.1/grant.html) and [`REVOKE`](../v19.1/revoke.html) to add users to the `admin` role without a valid license. This change aims to enable use of the Admin UI and other privileged features without a license. [#45396][#45396]
- The type checking code now prefers aggregate overloads with string inputs if there are multiple possible candidates due to arguments of unknown type. [#46902][#46902]
- Added a new "unimplemented" error when attempting to [`ADD CONSTRAINT `](../v19.1/add-constraint.html) with the `EXCLUDE USING` syntax. [#46912][#46912]
- Added support for using [`CREATE INDEX ... INCLUDE (col1, col2, ...)`](../v19.1/create-index.html), which is an alias that PostgreSQL uses that is analogous to our `STORING (col1, col2, ...)` syntax. [#46912][#46912]
- Added support for parsing the `REINDEX` syntax, which results in an "unimplemented" error that explains that `REINDEX`ing is not required in CockroachDB. [#46912][#46912]
- CockroachDB now parses the `CREATE INDEX CONCURRENTLY` and `DROP INDEX CONCURRENTLY` syntaxes, which return errors when used. [#46808][#46808]

### Command-line changes

- [`cockroach debug zip`](../v19.1/debug-zip.html) now avoids creating invalid zip files if some of its requests encounter an error. [#46637][#46637]
- The time that [`cockroach quit`](../v19.1/stop-a-node.html) waits client-side for the node to drain (remove existing clients and push range leases away) is now configurable via the command-line flag `--drain-wait`. Note that separate server-side timeouts also apply separately; check the `server.shutdown.*` [cluster settings](../v19.1/cluster-settings.html) for details. [#47698][#47698]
- It is now possible to drain a node without shutting down the process, using [`cockroach node drain`](../v19.1/view-node-details.html). This makes it easier to integrate with service managers and orchestration: it now becomes safe to issue `cockroach node drain` and then separately stop the service via a process manager or orchestrator. Without this new mode, there is a risk to misconfigure the service manager to auto-restart the node after it shuts down via `quit`, in a way that's surprising or unwanted. The new command `node drain` also recognizes the new `--drain-wait` flag. [#47698][#47698]
- The default value of the parameter `--drain-wait` for [`cockroach quit`](../v19.1/stop-a-node.html) has been increased from 1 minute to 10 minutes, to give more time for nodes with thousands of ranges to migrate their leases away. [#47698][#47698]
- The commands [`cockroach quit`](../v19.1/stop-a-node.html) and [`cockroach node drain`](../v19.1/view-node-details.html) now report a "work remaining" metric on their standard error stream. The value reduces until it reaches `0`, to indicate that the graceful shutdown has completed server-side. An operator can now rely on `cockroach node drain` to obtain confidence of a graceful shutdown prior to terminating the server process. [#47698][#47698]

### Admin UI changes

- Metrics relating to [SQL transaction](../v19.1/admin-ui-sql-dashboard.html) restarts and rollbacks are now properly captured and exported. [#46273][#46273]

### Bug fixes

- Fixed a "cannot map variable" error in some rare cases involving [joins](../v19.1/joins.html). [#44860][#44860]
- Fixed incorrect de-duplication of impure expressions (like `gen_random_uuid`) in projections and default values. [#44916][#44916]
- Fixed an internal error that could occur when `NULLIF` was called with one null argument. [#45391][#45391]
- It is now possible to create [inverted indexes](../v19.1/inverted-indexes.html) on columns whose names are mixed-case. [#45678][#45678]
- Previously, drivers that did not truncate trailing zeroes for decimals in the binary format ended up having inaccuracies of up to 10^4 during the decode step. Fixed this error by truncating the trailing zeroes as appropriate. This fixes known incorrect decoding cases with Postgrex in Elixir. [#45671][#45671]
- Fixed a name resolution error that could occur when a [common table expression](../v19.1/common-table-expressions.html) (CTE) was referenced in the [`SELECT`](../v19.1/selection-queries.html) list of a query using the syntax `<cte-name>.<col-name>`. [#45782][#45782]
- Previously, CockroachDB could crash when computing [window functions](../v19.1/window-functions.html) with `RANGE` mode of framing when one of the bounds was either of `offset PRECEDING` or `offset FOLLOWING` type when there were `NULL` values in the single column from `ORDER BY` clause. Additionally, in `RANGE` mode bounds `0 PRECEDING` and `0 FOLLOWING` could be handled incorrectly. Now this has been fixed. [#45806][#45806]
- Fixed an internal error that could occur in the [optimizer](../v19.1/cost-based-optimizer.html) when a `WHERE` filter contained at least one correlated subquery and one non-correlated subquery. [#46168][#46168]
- CockroachDB now properly supports using `--url` with query options (e.g., `application_name`) without specifying `sslmode`. The default of `sslmode=disable` is assumed in that case. [#46480][#46480]
- Fixed a bug where operations on an index that contained a collated string in descending order would fail. [#46579][#46579]
- Fixed an incorrect query result that could occur when a scalar aggregate was called with a null input. [#46902][#46902]
- Fixed a data race on AST nodes for [`SELECT`](../v19.1/selection-queries.html) statements that include a `WINDOW` clause. It is unclear whether this could have resulted in incorrect results being returned for these queries. [#47177][#47177]
- Fixed incorrect results that could occur when casting negative [intervals](../v19.1/interval.html) or [timestamps](../v19.1/timestamp.html) to type [decimal](../v19.1/decimal.html). [#47524][#47524]
- Previously, CockroachDB was incorrectly releasing memory used by hash aggregation. This could lead to a crash (which was more likely when hash aggregation had store on the order of 100k of groups) and is now fixed. [#47520][#47520]
- Fixed a bug that could lead to data corruption or data loss if a replica was both the source of a snapshot and was being concurrently removed from the range. This scenario is rare, but possible. [#48317][#48317]

### Contributors

This release includes 27 merged PRs by 10 authors.

[#44860]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/44860
[#44916]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/44916
[#45391]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/45391
[#45396]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/45396
[#45671]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/45671
[#45678]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/45678
[#45782]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/45782
[#45806]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/45806
[#46168]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/46168
[#46273]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/46273
[#46480]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/46480
[#46579]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/46579
[#46637]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/46637
[#46808]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/46808
[#46902]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/46902
[#46912]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/46912
[#47177]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/47177
[#47520]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/47520
[#47524]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/47524
[#47698]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/47698
[#48317]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/48317
