---
title: What&#39;s New in v2.1.0-beta.20180827
toc: false
summary: Additions and changes in CockroachDB version v2.1.0-beta.20180827 since version v2.1.0-alpha.20180730
---

## August 27, 2018

Get future release notes emailed to you:

<div class="hubspot-install-form install-form-1 clearfix">
    <script>
        hbspt.forms.create({
            css: '',
            cssClass: 'install-form',
            portalId: '1753393',
            formId: '39686297-81d2-45e7-a73f-55a596a8d5ff',
            formInstanceId: 1,
            target: '.install-form-1'
        });
    </script>
</div>

### Downloads

<div id="os-tabs" class="clearfix">
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v2.1.0-beta.20180827.darwin-10.9-amd64.tgz"><button id="mac" data-eventcategory="mac-binary-release-notes">Mac</button></a>
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v2.1.0-beta.20180827.linux-amd64.tgz"><button id="linux" data-eventcategory="linux-binary-release-notes">Linux</button></a>
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v2.1.0-beta.20180827.windows-6.2-amd64.zip"><button id="windows" data-eventcategory="windows-binary-release-notes">Windows</button></a>
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v2.1.0-beta.20180827.src.tgz"><button id="source" data-eventcategory="source-release-notes">Source</button></a>
</div>

### Backward-Incompatible Changes

- Support for PostgreSQL's
  TIMETZ data type is removed because it was incomplete/incorrect. This
  was a feature only available in previous 2.1-alpha releases but not
  any stable release, and thus was experimental anyways. Tables
  previously created with the TIMETZ data type must be dropped entirely
  -- it is not possible to convert the data or drop a single TIMETZ
  column. [#28095][#28095]
- CockroachDB previously
  included some preliminary support for the data type
  "BIT". Unfortunately this functionality was both incorrectly
  implemented and was found to cause incompatibility with client
  apps. It is thus removed; it will be replaced by a
  PostgreSQL-compatible replacement at a later time. [#28814][#28814]

### General Changes

- Allow separate certificate and CA for
  the Admin UI. [#27916][#27916]
- The ability to set lease placement
  preferences in zone configs has graduated from experimental to fully
  supported. Existing lease placement preferences will continue to
  function as in v2.0. [#28261][#28261]
- Added a new admin server endpoint
  `/_admin/v1/enqueue_range` which runs the specified range through the
  specified internal queue on the specified node (or all nodes). The
  skip_should_queue parameter can also be specified to tell the system to
  blindly run without first checking whether it needs to be run. Intended
  primarily for debugging purposes. [#26554][#26554]
- Include hardware and OS information in the anonymous diagnostics reporting sent to Cockroach Labs if enabled. [#28676][#28676]
- Include basic stats about size of IMPORTs run in anonymous telemetry. [#28726][#28726]

### Enterprise Edition Changes

- Log some encryption status. [#27880][#27880]
- CHANGEFEEDs now support interleaved
  tables [#27991][#27991]
- CREATE CHANGEFEED now requires an
  enterprise license when used with Kafka. [#27962][#27962]
- CHANGEFEEDs now error (instead of
  returning incorrect results) when column families are added [#27962][#27962]
- CHANGEFEEDS now error when targeting
  system tables (instead of operating with undefined behavior) [#27962][#27962]
- CREATE CHANGEFEED is now restricted to
  superusers [#27962][#27962]
- Rotate encryption keys while running [#28148][#28148]
- CHANGEFEED job descriptions now
  substitute values for sql placeholders [#28220][#28220]
- CHANGEFEEDs can now only target lists
  of physical tables [#27996][#27996]
- CHANGEFEEDs now error when a watched
  table is truncated, dropped, or renamed [#28204][#28204]
- Add encryption-status debug command to
  display encryption key information. [#28582][#28582]
- Adjusted changefeed kafka tunings for
  faster flushes, improving throughput [#28586][#28586]
- CHANGEFEEDs now checkpoint progress
  more granularly. [#28319][#28319]
- CHANGEFEEDS now export metrics for
  production monitoring [#28162][#28162]
- The CHANGEFEED "timestamp" option has
  been split into "updated" and "resolved". [#28733][#28733]
- CHANGEFEEDs are now executed using our
  distributed SQL framework. [#28555][#28555]

### SQL Language Changes

- Add foreign key support to mysqldump imports. [#27861][#27861]
- Fully sort the output of SHOW GRANTS. [#27884][#27884]
- Make reads from GCS (in IMPORT or BACKUP)
  more resilient to quota limits. [#27862][#27862]
- ORDER BY INDEX now implies an ordering by the
  implicit primary key columns appended to indexes. [#27812][#27812]
- The session variable and protocol status
  parameter `server_encoding` is now defined and has the constant value
  UTF8, for compatibility with PostgreSQL. It is not possible to change
  its value. [#27943][#27943]
- The support for `extra_float_digits` is
  extended for compatibility with PostgreSQL. [#27952][#27952]
- The handling of SET, RESET and SHOW was
  improved for better compatibility with PostgreSQL. [#27947][#27947]
- The parameter `integer_datetimes` is now
  visible in SHOW and `pg_settings` for compatibility with PostgreSQL. [#27947][#27947]
- The default value of `client_min_messages`
  and `extra_float_digits` has been set to the same value as PostgreSQL
  for compatibility. [#27947][#27947]
- Correct the oids and formatting of some
  columns in the pg_catalog.pg_index table. [#27961][#27961]
- Permit distribution of queries that use the
  repeat builtin function. [#28039][#28039]
- Statement statistics are now grouped
  separately for queries using the new-gen optimizers and those that
  don't. [#27806][#27806]
- Fix ROLL BACK ROLL BACK jobs seen in jobs
  table. [#28014][#28014]
- CockroachDB now supports empty tuples with
  the syntax `()`, 1-valued tuples with the syntax `(x,)` in addition to
  `row(x)`, and the ability to use `IN` with an empty tuple as right
  operand. [#28143][#28143]
- Subqueries are now supported in the
  Distributed SQL execution engine. [#27752][#27752]
- CockroachDB now supports constructing array
  values using parentheses, for example `ARRAY(1,2,3,4)`. This is a
  CockroachDB extension; the standard PostgreSQL syntax `ARRAY[1,2,3,4]`
  remains supported. [#28238][#28238]
- CockroachDB now supports converting arrays
  and tuples to strings for compatibility with PostgreSQL. [#28183][#28183]
- The rollback of a schema change
  backfill would not be initialized properly, effectively
  creating bugs like: not deleting all column backfill data
  if a column backfill needed to be rolled back, not rebuilding
  an index properly if a DROP INDEX failed and needed to be
  rolled back. [#28050][#28050]
- ANY/ALL/SOME comparisons with empty tuples
  are now allowed. ANY/ALL/SOME comparisons are now more permissive about
  the types of their input expressions. [#28226][#28226]
- More correct handling of decimal
  0s. Specifically, -0 is coerced to 0 and values like 0.00 retain the
  digits after the decimal point. [#27978][#27978]
- Arrays of arrays are no longer allowed, even
  as intermediate results. [#28116][#28116]
- Support CockroachDB dumps in IMPORT PGDUMP. [#28359][#28359]
- The decimal variants of the ceil and ceiling
  functions now return 0 where they would have returned -0 previously. [#28366][#28366]
- Improve support for S3-compatible endpoints
  in BACKUP, RESTORE, and IMPORT. The AWS_REGION parameter is no longer
  required. Services like Digital Ocean Spaces and Minio now work correctly. [#28394][#28394]
- CockroachDB now supports
  optional FILTER clause with aggregates when used as
  window functions. [#28357][#28357]
- Normalize case of mysqldump imported table names. [#28397][#28397]
- All queries now run through the DistSQL
  execution engine. [#27863][#27863]
- It is now an error to specify both
  FORCE_INDEX and NO_INDEX_JOIN hints at the same time. [#28411][#28411]
- Fix node freeze after DROP DATABASE
  when command aborts. [#28381][#28381]
- Fix rare use of an older descriptor after
  DROP INDEX. [#28381][#28381]
- `numeric_precision_radix` was added to `information_schema.columns` [#28467][#28467]
- The `cockroach` sub-commands that print out
  SQL results now issue a warning if more than 10000 result rows are
  buffered in the `table` formatter. [#28490][#28490]
- Fix imported row counts in IMPORT. [#28469][#28469]
- Cluster settings schemachanger.lease.duration and
  schemachanger.lease.renew_fraction to control the schema change lease. [#28342][#28342]
- Added the new aggregation function string_agg that
  concats a collection of strings into a single string and seperates them with the
  passed in delimiter. [#28392][#28392]
- CockroachDB now fully supports
  RANGE mode for specification of window frames. [#27022][#27022]
- CockroachDB now supports the `ARRAY()`
  operator and comparisons with sub-queries on the right side of the
  comparison, when they appear themselves in sub-queries. [#28618][#28618]
- CockroachDB now supports
  GROUPS mode of window frame specification. [#28244][#28244]
- A CockroachDB-specific experimental
  extension to SQL sequences, called "virtual sequences", is introduced
  as an experiment to more transparently support PostgreSQL applications
  using the SERIAL pseudo-type. [#28575][#28575]
- CockroachDB now supports two experimental
  compatibility modes with how PostgreSQL handles SERIAL and sequences,
  to ease reuse of 3rd party frameworks or apps developed for
  PostgreSQL. These modes can be enabled with the session variable
  `experimental_serial_normalization` (per client) and cluster setting
  `sql.defaults.serial_normalization` (cluster-wide). The first mode
  `virtual_sequence` enables compatibility with many applications using
  SERIAL with maximum performance and scalability. The second mode
  `sql_sequence` enables maximum PostgreSQL compatibility but thus uses
  regular SQL sequences and is thus subject to performance constraints. [#28575][#28575]
- Fix problem with needing to run
  a periodic sql query on the outside to get good initial
  latency on a dormant cluster. [#28725][#28725]
- The output of `SHOW COLUMNS` is extended to
  indicate which columns are hidden. [#28750][#28750]
- Fix ADD/DROP COLUMN
  index-id does not exist error [#28803][#28803]
- The FLOAT column types are now reported
  as `FLOAT4` and `FLOAT8` (the default) in the output of SHOW CREATE,
  instead of `REAL` and `FLOAT` as previously. [#28776][#28776]
- Previously, CockroachDB was
  erroneously allowing generator functions, aggregates, and window
  functions in the ON clause of joins. These functions are no longer
  allowed in join conditions, and will cause an error if used. [#28839][#28839]
- Tables columns created prior to this patch
  with the type name "BIT" will continue to work but will see their type
  automatically changed to INT in the output of SHOW TABLES,
  `information_schema`, etc. This is backward-compatible insofar that
  the previous BIT type in CockroachDB was actually a simple
  integer. Only the name of the type of these columns changes; their
  values are unaffected and can continue to be used in queries without
  visible changes to query results in client apps which actually
  utilized the incorrect pre-2.1 BIT semantics. [#28814][#28814]

### Command-Line Changes

- `cockroach start` now reports the URL of
  the web UI with the prefix "`webui:`", not `admin:` as previously. [#28038][#28038]
- `cockroach start` now reports a waraning if
  more than 75% of available RAM is reserved by `--cache` and
  `--max-sql-memory`. [#28199][#28199]
- `cockroach start` now informs the user of
  which command-line flags to use to access the newly started node in
  client commands (e.g. `cockroach quit` etc.). [#28198][#28198]
- Include the problem ranges report in `debug
  zip` output. [#28253][#28253]
- Added two new cluster settings for
  controlling how long time series data is retained on the cluster; the
  new settings work with the recently added "roll-ups" to allow longer
  retention of time series data while consuming considerably less disk
  space. [#28169][#28169]
- The various `cockroach` client comments
  now better attempt to inform the user about why a connection is failing. [#28200][#28200]
- The flags `--host` and `--port` to
  `cockroach start` are deprecated in favor of `--listen-addr` and
  `--listen-port`. They remain valid for other *client* commands.  The
  flags `--advertise-host` and `--http-host` are deprecated in favor of
  `--advertise-addr` and `--http-addr` and do not change meaning. [#27800][#27800]
- The various client commands that use a SQL
  connection (including e.g. `cockroach sql`, `cockroach node`,
  `cockroach user`) now produce an error if a connection could not be
  established within 5 seconds instead of waiting forever. [#28326][#28326]
- `cockroach demo` now supports starting with
  one of various datasets loaded [#28383][#28383]
- The file generated by running debug zip
  now contains the contents of the system.rangelog table, which is a
  record of range splits and rebalances in the cluster. [#28396][#28396]
- The server-side command line flag
  `--listen-addr`, which replaces the previous `--host` flag, is now
  equipped to recognize both a hostname/address and port number. The
  `--port` flag is deprecated as a result. [#28373][#28373]
- The server-side command line flag
  `--http-addr`, which replaces the previous `--http-host` flag, is now
  equipped to recognize both a hostname/address and port number. The
  `--http-port` flag is deprecated as a result. [#28373][#28373]
- The server-side command line flag
  `--advertise-addr`, which replaces the previous `--advertise-host`
  flag, is now equipped to recognize both a hostname/address and
  port number. The `--advertise-port` flag is deprecated as a result. [#28373][#28373]
- The client-side command line flag `--host`
  is now equipped to recognize both a hostname/address and port
  number. The client-side `--port` flag is still recognized,
  but not documented any more; `--host` is now preferred. [#28373][#28373]
- The environment variable COCKROACH_PORT
  that specifies the port number to use for client commands is now
  deprecated. The port number can be placed in the COCKROACH_HOST
  environment variable instead. [#28373][#28373]
- The syntax to specify IPv6 addresses with
  the client-side command line flag `--host` is changed to use square
  brackets, for example `--host=[::1]` instead of just `--host=::1`
  previously. The previous syntax is still recognized for backward
  compatibility but is deprecated. [#28373][#28373]
- The flag `--listen-port` which was
  introduced in a recent change is now removed. (DOCS NOTE: remove both
  this release note and the previous one that introduced --listen-port) [#28373][#28373]
- Enhance `node status` to work on
  unavailable/broken clusters. [#28249][#28249]
- The SQL shell and other `cockroach` command
  that display SQL results now use a new result formatter `table` by
  default. This provides more compact and more reusable results. This
  replaces the previous formatter called `pretty`. [#28465][#28465]
- `cockroach` will now report a non-zero exit
  status if an attempt is made to use a non-existent sub-command. [#28492][#28492]
- `cockroach` commands that print SQL
  results containing byte array now print them as if they
  were converted by a SQL cast to the `string` type. [#28494][#28494]
- CockroachDB now supports configuring port
  numbers with `--listen-addr`/`--http-addr`/`--advertise-addr` using
  service names in addition to numeric values. [#28502][#28502]
- When the TCP port number 0 is specified
  with `--listen-addr`/`--http-addr`, a port number is now always
  automatically allocated. [#28502][#28502]
- CockroachDB now attempts to inform the
  operator if the names and IP addresses listed in the configured
  certificates do not match the server configuration. [#28502][#28502]
- Add locality filter for 'gen haproxy' command [#28649][#28649]

### Admin UI Changes

- Add disk read and write time charts to
  Hardware dashboard [#27977][#27977]
- Add link to statements screen from
  top-level sidebar [#27928][#27928]
- Fix bug in which statements page blanks
  out after it reloads itself after a few minutes. [#28108][#28108]
- Add number of CPUs and percentages of
  memory and disk usage to the node list on the overview page. [#28189][#28189]
- Remove "distsql reads" time series from
  chart on the SQL dashboard, since execution engines are being merged. [#28350][#28350]
- The "Statements" page now reveals
  whether a SQL query used the new cost-based optimizer. [#28094][#28094]
- Show the number of replicas which have
  too large log in the problem ranges report [#28034][#28034]
- Add encryption statistics on stores report page [#26890][#26890]
- Require login by default on secure
  clusters [#28416][#28416]
- Clickable area on dropdown components
   enlarged to include entirety of surrounding container [#28331][#28331]
- Show system and user CPU summed on
  hardware dashboard instead of separately, and normalized by number of
  CPUs. [#28596][#28596]
- The Jobs page now supports
  indefinitely-running job types which have a "highwater timestamp",
  instead of the "fraction completed" used by jobs with a finite task. [#28535][#28535]
- Add disk reads and writes per second to
  the hardware dashboard [#28594][#28594]
- Update the alert text on the web UI
  connection lost alert banner.  This has been a longstanding source
  of confusion for users, particularly since the alert is a bit too
  pessimistic sometimes (see #20499). [#28838][#28838]

### Bug Fixes

- Now regular aggregations
  combined with window functions and columns "as-is"
  are handled correctly. [#27897][#27897]
- Fix a panic caused by kv tracing a plan that
  uses an index joiner [#27942][#27942]
- The parameter `bytea_output` is now properly
  effective for distributed queries. [#27951][#27951]
- Limit the size of "batch groups" when committing
  a batch to RocksDB to avoid rare scenarios in which multi-gigabyte batch
  groups are created which can cause a server to run out of memory when
  replaying the RocksDB log at startup. [#27895][#27895]
- Fix roundtripping of cast expression formatting
  in the presence of collated strings. [#27941][#27941]
- Prevent spurious query errors when planning
  some complex correlated SRFs through the distributed execution engine. [#27995][#27995]
- Now offsets of frame
  boundaries are handled correctly when specified
  in WINDOW clause. [#27933][#27933]
- Fix formatting of time datatypes in some
  circumstances. [#28040][#28040]
- Properly permit use of
  crdb_internal.cluster_id() in distsql queries. [#28042][#28042]
- Fixed incorrect NULL handling in the distributed
  implementations of INTERSECT and EXCEPT. [#28097][#28097]
- Correct erroneous failures of privileged
  builtins in queries run through distsql. [#28107][#28107]
- Ensure that the timestamp data type never
  retains a timezone and renders consistently across a distributed
  computation flow. [#28112][#28112]
- Correct casts and binary operators between
  timestamptz and timestamp in some cases. [#28128][#28128]
- Prevent some sequence builtins from incorrectly
  running in distributed flows. [#28114][#28114]
- Correct the round-trip formatting of negative
  floats and decimals in the context of other expressions when executing
  in a distributed flow. [#28129][#28129]
- Fix bug that could skip the row following a deleted row during BACKUP. [#28172][#28172]
- `cockroach user set --password` can now change
  the password of existing users. [#28197][#28197]
- CockroachDB supports a wider range of tuple
  and array values in query results. [#28151][#28151]
- `cockroach sql` and `cockroach demo` are now
  properly able to customize the prompt with `~/.editrc` on Linux. [#28233][#28233]
- `cockroach sql` and `cockroach demo` again
  support copy-pasting special unicode character from other documents. [#28233][#28233]
- `cockroach sql` and `cockroach demo` now again
  properly handles copy-pasting a mixture of client-side
  commands (e.g. `\set`) and SQL statements. [#28235][#28235]
- Generator builtins now correctly return no rows
  instead of NULL when given NULL arguments. [#28252][#28252]
- `cockroach sql` and `cockroach demo` now
  properly print a warning when a `?` character is mistakenly used to
  receive contextual help in a non-interactive session, instead of
  crashing. [#28324][#28324]
- Fix out-of-memory errors caused by very large
  raft logs. [#28293][#28293]
- Fix out-of-memory errors caused by very large
  raft logs. [#28293][#28293]
- Certain queries that use empty arrays
  constructed from subqueries no longer spuriously fail when executed via
  the distributed query engine. [#28391][#28391]
- BACKUP and RESTORE now put placeholder values
  into their job descriptions. [#28321][#28321]
- Additional fixes for out-of-memory errors
  caused by very large raft logs. [#28511][#28511]
- CockroachDB now handles negative FLOAT zeros
  properly in more cases. [#28569][#28569]
- `cockroach sql` and `cockroach demo` now work properly even when
  the TERM environment variable is not set. [#28613][#28613]
- CockroachDB now correctly
  handles computation of `array_agg` when used as
  a window function. [#28291][#28291]
- Decommissioning multiple nodes is now possible
  without posing a risk to cluster health. Recommissioning a node does
  no longer require a restart of the target nodes to take effect. [#28707][#28707]
- Fix rare scenario where the value written for
  one system key was seen when another system key was read leading to the
  violation of internal invariants. [#28794][#28794]
- Hidden columns are now listed in
  `information_schema` and `pg_catalog` tables, for better compatibility
  with PostgreSQL. [#28750][#28750]
- Casting arrays now correctly preserves NULL
  values. [#28860][#28860]

### Performance Improvements

- Improve fixed cost of running
  distributed sql queries. [#27899][#27899]
- Avoid allocating large row
  buffer for DML statements with RETURNING clauses. [#27944][#27944]
- Improve low-level iteration
  performance in the presence of range tombstones. [#27904][#27904]
- Data ingested with RESTORE and
  IMPORT is now eligible for a performance optimization used in
  incremental BACKUP and CHANGEFEEDs [#27966][#27966]
- Reduce lock contention in RemoteClockMonitor. [#28000][#28000]
- Reduce lock contention in
  Replica write path. [#24990][#24990]
- Reduce lock contention in
  Gossip server. [#28001][#28001]
- Reduce lock contention in
  raftEntryCache. [#27997][#27997]
- Avoid allocations in
  raftEntryCache. [#27997][#27997]
- Fix batch commit performance
  regression that reduced write performance by 20%. [#28163][#28163]
- Greatly improved performance
  when catching up followers that are behind when raft logs are large. [#28511][#28511]
- SQL sequences receive a slight
  performance boost in the `nextval()` built-in function. [#28576][#28576]
- Reduce lock contention in Gossip server. [#28127][#28127]
- Reduce the cost of Raft log
  truncations and increase single-range throughput. [#28126][#28126]
- Subqueries no longer are run
  via local SQL. [#28580][#28580]
- Range leases will be
  automatically rebalanced throughout the cluster to even out the amount
  of QPS being handled by each node. [#28340][#28340]

### Miscellaneous

#### Missing Category

- Performance is greatly improved when deleting from a table
  with interleaved tables that have ON DELETE CASCADE clauses. [#28330][#28330]
- - Numeric references in opt/ do not use the table descriptor
    cache. This diverges from how numeric references were resolved in the
    heuristic planner.
  - This PR changes the semantics of SELECT * FROM [53() as t].
    Previously, and empty column list to a table reference query
    was accepted, and an zero column row was returned. With this
    change, an empty column list is no longer accepted. Empty column
    lists now returns the error: "An explicit list of column IDs must
    include at least one column"

  Relevant comment by @knz on this change:

   "I am not 100% sure how to solve this but I would be comfortable to
   'solve' this by rejecting the notation NN() during planning and say with
   an error "an explicit list of column IDs must include at least one
   column".
   Even in the envisioned case for numeric references to handle view
   descriptors, this would be adequate (a numeric reference inside a view
   descriptor will always include at least the PK columns, even if only
   hidden)" [#28159][#28159]
- `\r\n` characters in CSV files were silently converted into `\n`. This
  causes imported data to be different. This is now fixed. [#28181][#28181]

#### Performance Fix

- Fix for initial poor latencies introduced
  in a recent beta. [#28599][#28599]

#### Changes without release note annotation

- [#28856][#28856] [c0dfc3726][c0dfc3726] ui: cleanup recent dropdown code changes re: #28331 (Joseph Lowinske)
- [#28533][#28533] [b728fcd38][b728fcd38] storage: handle snapshots that span merges (Nikhil Benesch)
- [#28632][#28632] [471584384][471584384] storage: require RHS catch-up during merge (Nikhil Benesch)
- [#28632][#28632] [12f71115b][12f71115b] storage: require RHS catch-up during merge (Nikhil Benesch)
- [#28514][#28514] [82175839a][82175839a] storage: fix typo for the comments in funtion defaultSubmitProposalLo… (Song Hao)
- [#28085][#28085] [d88beb61a][d88beb61a] Revert "gossip: use RWMutex in gossip server" (Nathan VanBenschoten)
- [#28007][#28007] [f18e5a00a][f18e5a00a] storage: fix a nasty merge/replica GC race (Nikhil Benesch)
- [#27959][#27959] [1693e1ca3][1693e1ca3] Revert "kv, storage: HeartbeatTxnReq skips checking the abort span" (Andrei Matei)
- [#27959][#27959] [3c24e4016][3c24e4016] Revert "kv, storage: HeartbeatTxnReq skips checking the abort span" (Andrei Matei)
- [#27829][#27829] [408d45ac4][408d45ac4] kv,storage: disable pipelining in merge transaction (Nikhil Benesch)
- [#26806][#26806] [ea22f5317][ea22f5317] [wip] sql: Create benchmark test for multi-row statements involving FKs (Emmanuel Sales)

### Doc Updates

Docs team: Please add these manually.

### Contributors

This release includes 493 merged PRs by 39 authors.
We would like to thank the following contributors from the CockroachDB community:

- Constantine Peresypkin
- Garvit Juniwal
- Joseph Lowinske (first-time contributor, CockroachDB team member)
- Song Hao
- Takuya Kuwahara
- Tim O'Brien (first-time contributor, CockroachDB team member)
- neeral

[#24990]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24990
[#26554]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/26554
[#26806]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/26806
[#26890]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/26890
[#27022]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/27022
[#27752]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/27752
[#27800]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/27800
[#27806]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/27806
[#27812]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/27812
[#27829]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/27829
[#27861]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/27861
[#27862]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/27862
[#27863]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/27863
[#27880]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/27880
[#27884]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/27884
[#27895]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/27895
[#27897]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/27897
[#27899]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/27899
[#27904]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/27904
[#27916]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/27916
[#27928]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/27928
[#27933]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/27933
[#27941]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/27941
[#27942]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/27942
[#27943]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/27943
[#27944]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/27944
[#27947]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/27947
[#27951]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/27951
[#27952]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/27952
[#27959]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/27959
[#27961]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/27961
[#27962]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/27962
[#27966]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/27966
[#27977]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/27977
[#27978]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/27978
[#27991]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/27991
[#27995]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/27995
[#27996]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/27996
[#27997]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/27997
[#28000]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28000
[#28001]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28001
[#28007]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28007
[#28014]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28014
[#28034]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28034
[#28038]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28038
[#28039]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28039
[#28040]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28040
[#28042]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28042
[#28050]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28050
[#28085]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28085
[#28094]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28094
[#28095]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28095
[#28097]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28097
[#28107]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28107
[#28108]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28108
[#28112]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28112
[#28114]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28114
[#28116]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28116
[#28126]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28126
[#28127]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28127
[#28128]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28128
[#28129]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28129
[#28143]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28143
[#28148]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28148
[#28151]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28151
[#28159]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28159
[#28162]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28162
[#28163]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28163
[#28169]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28169
[#28172]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28172
[#28181]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28181
[#28183]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28183
[#28189]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28189
[#28197]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28197
[#28198]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28198
[#28199]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28199
[#28200]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28200
[#28204]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28204
[#28220]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28220
[#28226]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28226
[#28233]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28233
[#28235]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28235
[#28238]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28238
[#28244]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28244
[#28249]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28249
[#28252]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28252
[#28253]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28253
[#28261]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28261
[#28291]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28291
[#28293]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28293
[#28319]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28319
[#28321]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28321
[#28324]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28324
[#28326]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28326
[#28330]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28330
[#28331]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28331
[#28340]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28340
[#28342]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28342
[#28350]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28350
[#28357]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28357
[#28359]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28359
[#28366]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28366
[#28373]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28373
[#28381]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28381
[#28383]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28383
[#28391]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28391
[#28392]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28392
[#28394]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28394
[#28396]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28396
[#28397]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28397
[#28411]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28411
[#28416]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28416
[#28465]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28465
[#28467]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28467
[#28469]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28469
[#28490]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28490
[#28492]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28492
[#28494]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28494
[#28502]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28502
[#28511]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28511
[#28514]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28514
[#28533]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28533
[#28535]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28535
[#28555]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28555
[#28569]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28569
[#28575]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28575
[#28576]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28576
[#28580]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28580
[#28582]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28582
[#28586]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28586
[#28594]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28594
[#28596]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28596
[#28599]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28599
[#28613]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28613
[#28618]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28618
[#28632]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28632
[#28649]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28649
[#28676]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28676
[#28707]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28707
[#28725]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28725
[#28726]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28726
[#28733]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28733
[#28750]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28750
[#28776]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28776
[#28794]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28794
[#28803]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28803
[#28814]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28814
[#28838]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28838
[#28839]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28839
[#28856]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28856
[#28860]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/28860
[12f71115b]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/12f71115b
[1693e1ca3]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/1693e1ca3
[3c24e4016]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/3c24e4016
[408d45ac4]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/408d45ac4
[471584384]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/471584384
[82175839a]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/82175839a
[b728fcd38]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/b728fcd38
[c0dfc3726]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/c0dfc3726
[d88beb61a]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/d88beb61a
[ea22f5317]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/ea22f5317
[f18e5a00a]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/f18e5a00a
