---
title: What&#39;s New in v2.1-alpha.20180416
toc: false
summary: Additions and changes in CockroachDB version v2.1-alpha.20180416 since version v2.0.0
---

## April 16, 2018

Get future release notes emailed to you:

<div class="hubspot-install-form install-form-1 clearfix">
    <script>
        hbspt.forms.create({
            css: '',
            cssClass: 'install-form',
            portalId: '1753393',
            formId: '39686297-81d2-45e7-a73f-55a596a8d5ff',
            formInstanceId: 1,
            target: '.install-form-1'
        });
    </script>
</div>

### Downloads

<div id="os-tabs" class="clearfix">
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v2.1-alpha.20180416.darwin-10.9-amd64.tgz"><button id="mac" data-eventcategory="mac-binary-release-notes">Mac</button></a>
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v2.1-alpha.20180416.linux-amd64.tgz"><button id="linux" data-eventcategory="linux-binary-release-notes">Linux</button></a>
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v2.1-alpha.20180416.windows-6.2-amd64.zip"><button id="windows" data-eventcategory="windows-binary-release-notes">Windows</button></a>
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v2.1-alpha.20180416.src.tgz"><button id="source" data-eventcategory="source-release-notes">Source</button></a>
</div>

### General Changes

- Prevent execution errors reporting a missing `libtinfo.so.5` on linux systems. [#24513][#24513]
- Added cluster settings for HLC to be  monotonic across restarts [#23744][#23744]
- A CockroachDB process will now flush its logs upon receiving `SIGHUP`.
- Added cluster settings for HLC to panic on clock jumps [#23717][#23717]
- All internal error messages will now be logged when logging is set to a high enough verbosity. [#22919][#22919]
- Remove the cluster setting diagnostics.reporting.report_metrics. [#22979][#22979]

### Enterprise Edition Changes

- Support restoring views when using the 'into_db' option. [#24555][#24555]
- Relax limitation on BACKUP in mixed version cluster. [#24493][#24493]
- BACKUP and RESTORE are more resilient to non-URL-safe characters in query string authentication parameters. [#24300][#24300]
- Fix issue in RESTORE that could lead to missing rows if the RESTORE was interrupted. [#24083][#24083]
- A new cluster setting, jobs.registry.leniency, is added to allow long-running import jobs to survive temporary node saturation. [#23913][#23913]
- Add configurable limits on number of bulk io requests each store will process. [#23517][#23517]

### SQL Language Changes

- Added a new `ALTER TABLE` command `INJECT STATS` which injects table statistics from a JSON object (which can be obtained via `SHOW HISTOGRAM USING JSON`). [#24488][#24488]
- Added `SHOW STATISTICS USING JSON`, a variant of `SHOW STATISTICS` that outputs table statistics as a JSON object; it can be used to extract statistics from test or customer clusters to reproduce issues. [#24488][#24488]
- Permit `VIRTUAL` and `WORK` to be used as unrestricted names again. [#24491][#24491]
- Add a `CANCEL SESSION` statement, and add an `IF EXISTS` variant to `CANCEL QUERY`. [#23861][#23861]
- Add a new `session_id` column to the result of `SHOW SESSIONS`. [#23861][#23861]
- Added support for the information_schema.pg_expandarray() function. [#24422][#24422]
- Don't use outer transaction for role memberships manipulation. [#24284][#24284]
- `DROP DATABASE` and `ALTER DATABASE RENAME` now prevent the removal of a database name if that database is set as the current database (`SET database` / `USE`) and the session setting `sql_safe_updates` is also set. [#24246][#24246]
- support naming array types via the `_type` form, and quoted type names. [#24190][#24190]
- add the quote_ident builtin for increased postgres compatibility. [#24190][#24190]
- The behavior of `UPSERT` and `INSERT ... ON CONFLICT` when a `RETURNING` clause is present is made more consistent when an update touches the same row twice or more. This is a CockroachDB-specific extension. [#23698][#23698]
- Introduces a series of Postgres-compatible privilege-related builtin functions. [#23334][#23334]
- Added pg_language table to the pg_catalog. [#23334][#23334]
- Add the `anyarray` type to the `pg_type` catalog. [#23787][#23787]
- Add 'escape' option to the encode builtin. [#23512][#23512]
- Add `statement_timeout` session variable. [#23399][#23399]
- will fix endless churn experienced from large `DELETE FROM` statements, either by allowing them to complete, or by exiting with an error message indicating the transaction is too large to complete. [#23258][#23258]
- The type determined for constant NULL expressions is renamed to "unknown" for better compatibility with PostgreSQL. [#23142][#23142]
- The `pg_catalog` virtual tables, as well as the special casts `::regproc` and `::regclass`, can only be queried by clients that properly set a current database (`SET database = ...` or `USE`). [#23045][#23045]
- attempts to modify virtual schemas with DDL statements now fail with a clearer error message. [#23044][#23044]
- deleting many rows at once now consumes less memory. [#22991][#22991]
- CockroachDB now recognizes the special syntax `SET SCHEMA <name>` as an alias for `SET search_path = <name>` for better compatibility with PostgreSQL. [#22997][#22997]
- The pg_sleep(seconds) function is now supported. [#22804][#22804]
- include statistics on types of errors encountered in diagnostics reports. [#22912][#22912]
- return correct error code for division by zero. [#22912][#22912]
- The GC of table data after a DROP TABLE respects changes to the GC TTL interval specified in the zone config [#22774][#22774]
- the full name of tables/view/sequences is now properly logged in the system event log. [#22842][#22842]
- `current_role` is recognized as an alias for `current_user` for better compatibility with PostgreSQL. [#22828][#22828]
- the special identifier `current_catalog` is supported as alias for `current_database()` for better compatibility with PostgreSQL. [#22828][#22828]
- In light of recent improvements to the serializable isolation level to prevent client-side retries, deprecate automatic usage of SNAPSHOT through upgrade from READ UNCOMMITTED/COMMITTED. [#22766][#22766]

### Command-Line Changes

- The "gen autocomplete" command can now
  generator zsh-compatible completion files by passing "zsh" as an
  argument. [#24400][#24400]
- remove the `cockroach load csv` subcommand. [#24319][#24319]
- Fix specification of fractional
  units (e.g. 0.5GiB) for the --cache and --sql-max-memory flags. [#24381][#24381]
- If an haproxy.cfg file already exists
  in the current directory when `gen haproxy` is run, it now gets fully
  overwritten instead of potentially resulting in an unusable config. [#24332][#24332]
- add the cockroach demo command. cockroach
  demo opens a SQL shell connected to a fully in-memory store, and an
  empty database named 'demo'. It's useful for users or developers who
  wish to test out Cockroach's SQL dialect. [#24259][#24259]
- the postgres URL reported upon `cockroach
  start` again properly does not include the option `application_name`. [#23725][#23725]
- Add per-node heap profiles to the "debug zip"
  command output. [#23843][#23843]
- add "skip" option to IMPORT CSV DATA [#23466][#23466]
- The generated haproxy config has been
  extended with readiness checks. [#23463][#23463]
- Replication zone configs now allow for
  specifying an ordered list of lease placement preferences. Whenever
  possible, CockroachDB will attempt to put the lease for a range on a
  store that satisfies the first set of constraints. If that's not
  possible, it'll attempt to put the lease on a store that satisfies the
  second set of constraints, and so on. If none of the preferences can be
  met, the lease will be placed as it is today. [#23202][#23202]
- Change server.drain_max_wait to
  server.shutdown.query_wait [#23233][#23233]
- Print a help message if a node spends more
  than 30 seconds waiting for an init command or to join a cluster. [#23175][#23175]
- Bracketed pastes are requested from the
  terminal emulator when possible. Pasting text into the interactive SQL
  shell is more reliable as a result. [#23116][#23116]
- `cockroach sql` now reminds the user about
  `SET database = ...` and `CREATE DATABASE` if started with no current
  database set. [#23077][#23077]
- Per-replica constraints no longer have to add
  up to the total number of replicas in a range. If don't specify all the
  replicas, then the remaining replicas will be allowed on any store. [#23057][#23057]
- Replication zone constraints can now be
  specified on a per-replica basis, meaning you can configure some
  replicas in a zone's ranges to follow one set of constraints and other
  replicas to follow other constraints.

  Release note (backwards-incompatible change): Positive constraints in
  replication zone configs no longer work. They have never been
  documented or officially supported, but will no longer be allowed at
  all. Any existing positive constraints will be ignored. [#22819][#22819]

### Admin UI Changes

- update node map's "you need a license"
  page to link to node map setup guide [#23516][#23516]
- Add box in bottom right of cluster viz
  with instructions on how to configure it to get a map. [#23516][#23516]
- Adds the available storage capcity to the
  cluster overview metrics. [#24161][#24161]
- Remove explicit back links on Events and Nodes
  pages. [#23904][#23904]
- Added a new debug page to display all cluster
  settings. [#24064][#24064]
- More debug pages are now locked down by
  the server.remote_debugging.mode cluster setting. [#23851][#23851]
- default to node list instead of node
  map. [#23852][#23852]
- Hides the node map if you don't have a valid
  enterprise license. [#23852][#23852]
- The network diagnositcs report will no longer
  crash when the latencies are very small or on a single node cluster. [#23844][#23844]
- Fix another flicker in the cluster viz
  as data was being reloaded. [#23573][#23573]
- fix text that was overflowing past the
  table cell boundaries on the jobs page. [#23687][#23687]
- Update the labels for the Snapshots chart on
  the Replication dashboard to be more specific. [#23729][#23729]
- Fix a bug in which usable capacity of
  nodes was not added up correctly. [#23678][#23678]
- Moved the Clock Offset graph from the
  Distributed dashboard to the Runtime dashboard, and display each node's
  clock offset independently rather than aggregating them together. [#23618][#23618]
- When reporting anonymous usage details, make
  sure locality tier names are redacted. [#23533][#23533]
- use spinner on logs page instead of
  saying "no data" while loading [#23496][#23496]
- use monospace font and render newlines
  on logs page. Also, pack lines together more tightly. [#23496][#23496]
- clusterviz: allow clicking on the
  entire node component, not just the visible elements [#23418][#23418]
- Removed the Keys Written per Second per
  Store graph. [#23292][#23292]
- In the node map, show how long a node
  has been dead. [#23255][#23255]
- clusterviz: correct liveness status text on nodes [#23255][#23255]
- in cluster viz, link from node component
  to node details page [#23252][#23252]
- Adds the Lead Transferee field to the range
  debug page. [#23235][#23235]
- Fix bug with showing description on jobs
  page. [#23169][#23169]
- fixes #21854 [#22953][#22953]

### Bug Fixes

- Fixed a panic around inverted index queries
  using the -> operator. [#24576][#24576]
- JSONB values can now be cast to STRINGs. [#24518][#24518]
- Fixed a crash caused by a WHERE condition that
  requires a column to equal a specific value and at the same time equal
  another column. [#24506][#24506]
- Fixed panics resulting to distributed execution
  of queries with OID types. [#24431][#24431]
- Fixed bug where an expected transaction
  heartbeat failure aborted the transaction. [#24134][#24134]
- prevent index backfills from failing in a
  loop after exceeding the GC TTL of their source table. [#24293][#24293]
- inverted index queries involving NULL are now
  properly handled. [#24251][#24251]
- Fixed a bug involving Npgsql and array values. [#24227][#24227]
- Fixes a bug where passing a Name type to
  has_database_privilege would cause a panic. [#24252][#24252]
- Brand-new nodes running CockroachDB 2.0 can
  now join clusters that contain nodes running version 1.1. [#24241][#24241]
- correctly generate on-disk checksums during
  IMPORT. If there is existing data created by IMPORT that cannot
  be recreated by this fixed version of IMPORT, use `cockroach dump`
  to rewrite any affected tables. [#24128][#24128]
- Fix a crash in `cockroach zone ls` that would
  happen if a table with a zone config on it had been deleted but not yet
  garbage collected. (this was broken in v2.0 alphas, not in v1.1) [#24178][#24178]
- redact string settings values in debug API responses. [#24044][#24044]
- garbage collect old replicas in a more timely
  fashion after a node has been offline for a long time (this bug only
  exists in recent v2.0 alpha/beta releases, not in v1.1). [#23995][#23995]
- Inverted indexes can no longer be hinted
  for inappropriate queries. [#23973][#23973]
- fix behaviour of @> operator with arrays and
  scalars. [#23934][#23934]
- Fixed a bug where some inverted index queries
  could return incorrect results. [#23930][#23930]
- enforce minimum privileges for "admin" role. [#23876][#23876]
- avoid a panic if the SQL audit log dir does
  not exist when the node is started up. [#23926][#23926]
- NB: this fixes a regression introduced in
  2.0-beta, and not present in 1.1: Avoid planning DistSQL errors against
  unavailable nodes. [#23834][#23834]
- Support Postgres syntax for USING GIN. [#23814][#23814]
- fixed a bug where INSERT/DELETE/UPDATE/UPSERT
  may lose updates if run using WITH or the [ ... ] syntax. [#23824][#23824]
- Make sure that all builtins have a unique
  Postgres OID for compatibility. [#23841][#23841]
- Fixed an error message generated by the
  experimental scrub feature. [#23797][#23797]
- Fixed a bug where CREATE VIEW after ALTER
  TABLE ADD COLUMN would fail to register the dependency on the newly
  added column. [#23797][#23797]
- Fixed crashes or incorrect results when
  combining an OUTER JOIN with a VALUES clause that contains only NULL
  values on a column (or other subqueries which result in a NULL
  column).

  Fixes #23609. [#23825][#23825]
- Fix rare nil pointer exception in rebalance
  target selection. [#23804][#23804]
- `cockroach zone set` will now automatically
  retry if it encounters an error while setting zone configurations. [#23768][#23768]
- reject attempt to RESTORE to a time later than that covered by lastest BACKUP. [#23727][#23727]
- fixed a bug where INSERT ... ON CONFLICT DO
  UPDATE would accept to update the same column twice.

  Release note (bug fix): fixed a panic when a query incorrectly would
  attempt to use an aggregation or window function in ON CONFLICT DO
  UPDATE. [#23657][#23657]
- Fix a panic when executing `INSERT INTO ...
  SELECT` queries where the number of columns targeted for insertion does
  not match the number of columns returned by the SELECT. [#23637][#23637]
- Reduced risk that a node in the process of
  crashing could serve inconsistent data. [#23560][#23560]
- Avoid connection attempts to former members of
  the cluster and the associated spurious log messages. [#23521][#23521]
- Fixed a correctness bug where some ORDER BY
  queries would not return the correct results under concurrent
  transactional load. [#23541][#23541]
- The /health HTTP endpoint is now accessible
  before a node has successfully become part of an initialized cluster,
  meaning that it now accurately reflects the health of the process rather
  than the ability of the process to serve queries. This has been the
  intention all along, but it didn't work until the node had joined a
  cluster or had `cockroach init` run on it. [#23546][#23546]
- Fixed a panic that could occur with certain
  types of casts. [#23530][#23530]
- Prevent a hang while crashing when stderr is
  blocked. [#23412][#23412]
- Fixed panics related to distributed execution of
  queries with REGCLASS casts. [#23479][#23479]
- CREATE TABLE AS can now be used again with
  scalar subqueries. [#23017][#23017]
- Prevent potential consistency issues when a node
  is stopped and restarted in rapid succession. [#23204][#23204]
- Fix a panic with computed columns. [#23211][#23211]
- `RETURNING NOTHING` now properly detects
  parallelization opportunities against statements that contain
  data-modifying statements in subqueries. [#23363][#23363]
- The admin UI no longer hangs after a node's
  network configuration has changed. [#23298][#23298]
- Add server.shutdown.drain_wait cluster setting
  and wait for that length of time in an unready state before draining to
  not get client requests while draining behind a load balancer. [#23233][#23233]
- Avoid disruptions in performance when gracefully
  shutting a node down. [#23265][#23265]
- Fixed a panic when UPSERT ... RETURNING was
  combined with UNION. [#23301][#23301]
- Fixed a deadlock when tables are rapidly
  created or dropped. [#23282][#23282]
- Hardened the cluster version upgrade mechanism.
  Rapid upgrades through more than two versions could sometimes fail
  recoverably. [#23261][#23261]
- Fix a small memory leak in IMPORT CSV. [#23183][#23183]
- ARRAYs can now be used with the postgres binary
  format. [#23126][#23126]
- secondary log files (e.g. the SQL execution
  log) are now periodically flushed to disk, in addition to the flush
  that occurs naturally when single log files are full
  (`--log-file-max-size`) and when the process terminates gracefully. [#23221][#23221]
- log file rotation is now properly active for
  secondary log files (e.g. the SQL execution and audit logs). [#23221][#23221]
- readiness endpoint added (/health?ready=1)
  for better integration with load balancers. [#22911][#22911]
- support the binary format for JSONB values. [#23114][#23114]
- prevent panic in distsql under certain error
  conditions. [#23197][#23197]
- Previously the `node status` command's "ranges"
  column only included ranges whose raft leader was on the node in
  question. It now includes the count of all ranges on the node,
  regardless of where the raft leader is. [#23162][#23162]
- Fix a zero qps scenario when a node would be
  gracefully drained. [#22767][#22767]
- Fix a bug that could prevent disk space from
  being reclaimed. [#23136][#23136]
- The handling of cases where a replica
  fails to retrieve the last processed timestamp of a queue has been
  corrected. [#22919][#22919]
- Guard against stale reads caused by the system
  clock moving backwards while the `cockroach` process is not running. [#23104][#23104]
- Decommissioning a node that has already been
  terminated now works in all cases. Success previously depended on
  whether the gateway node "remembered" the absent decommissionee. [#23082][#23082]
- Replication zone configs will no longer
  accept negative numbers as input. [#22870][#22870]
- Fix the occasional selection of sub-optimal
  rebalance targets. [#23036][#23036]
- `cockroach dump` is now able to dump sequences
  with non-default parameters. [#23051][#23051]
- `SHOW TABLES` is now again able to inspect
  virtual schemas. [#22994][#22994]
- the special form of `CREATE TABLE .. AS`
  now properly supports placeholders in the subquery. [#23006][#23006]
- Fix a bug where ranges could get stuck in an
  infinite "removal pending" state and would refuse to accept new writes. [#22916][#22916]
- Arrays now support the IS [NOT] DISTINCT FROM
  operators. [#23005][#23005]
- fixed incorrect index constraints on primary
  key columns on unique indexes (there was a possibility of returning
  fewer results, though unclear if it can happen in practice). [#22977][#22977]
- do not crash if COCKROACH_UPDATE_CHECK_URL or COCKROACH_USAGE_REPORT_URL overrides are empty. [#22968][#22968]
- fixes a panic when upgrading from quickly from
  1.0.x to 2.0.x [#22962][#22962]
- fix a bug that prevented joins on interleaved
  tables with certain layouts from working. [#22920][#22920]
- the parsing time of SQL statements
  is now (again) properly tracked.

  Release note (sql change): the service latency tracked for SQL
  statement now includes the wait time of the execute message in the
  input queue. [#22880][#22880]
- the conversion from `INTERVAL` to `FLOAT` now
  properly returns the number of seconds in the interval. [#22892][#22892]

### Performance Improvements

- Fewer disk writes are required
  for each database write, increasing write throughput and reducing
  write latency. [#22317][#22317]
- lowered the amount of memory
  used during garbage collection of old versions. [#24209][#24209]
- greatly improve the performance
  of the DISTINCT operator when its inputs are known to be sorted. [#24438][#24438]
- Write requests that result in
  no-ops are no longer proposed through Raft. [#24345][#24345]
- Improve performance of DISTINCT
  queries with orderings. [#24148][#24148]
- Improve cluster performance
  during overload scenarios. [#23869][#23869]

### Build Changes

- The Docker builder image is now able to
  cross-compile release aarch64 binaries. [#24354][#24354]
- Begin using Bors to automate the process of
  merging PRs to master. [#24100][#24100]
- Go 1.10 is now the minimum required version
  necessary to build CockroachDB. [#23441][#23441]
- Binaries are now built with Go 1.10 by default. [#22849][#22849]

### Miscellaneous

#### Admin Ui

- Fixed a bug where zooming on the node map could
  break after zooming out to the maximum extent. [#24164][#24164]
- Fixed a bug where graphs would not display on
  clusters with large numbers of nodes. [#24039][#24039]
- Decommissioned nodes no longer appear in the
  node selection dropdown on the Metrics page. [#23617][#23617]
- Fixed a bug where liveness status would not
  always display correctly on the single-node page. [#23178][#23178]

#### Build Note

- Release binaries are now built with enough
  debug information to produce useful CPU profiles and backtraces. [#24296][#24296]

#### Missing Category

- sql change: always fill in minimum required privileges. [#24390][#24390]
- Fix a crash while performing rolling-restarts. [#24239][#24239]
- Fix a crash cause sometimes by Flush protocol messages. [#24119][#24119]
- Retriable errors on schema change operations are less
  likely to be returned to clients; more operations are retried
  internally. [#24031][#24031]
- Fixed a condition where a persistent trailing dip could
  appear in graphs for longer time periods. [#23810][#23810]
- Fix a bug where closing a connection in the middle of
  executing a query sometimes crashed the server. [#23753][#23753]
- Fixed a bug where expressions could be mistakenly
  considered equal, despite their types being different. [#23465][#23465]
- Fixed a bug where the "Range Count" metric on the cluster
  overview could significantly undercount the number of ranges. [#23409][#23409]
- fix bugs when running DistSQL queries across
  mixed-version (1.1.x and 2.0-alpha) clusters. [#22886][#22886]

#### Changes without release note annotation

- [#24594][#24594] [0d3d76a18][0d3d76a18] ts: Initial TimeSeries TestModel. (Matt Tracy)
- [#24510][#24510] [bd2856221][bd2856221] server: skip null config zones in diagnostic report (David Taylor)
- [#24373][#24373] [31fee8a70][31fee8a70] distsqlrun: make the sorter return trace data on error  (Andrei Matei)
- [#24253][#24253] [ed0823caa][ed0823caa] monitoring: update prometheus config for 2.x (Marc Berhault)
- [#24192][#24192] [f8ffa5265][f8ffa5265] opt: use constraint primitives for idxconstraint (Radu Berinde)
- [#24196][#24196] [936f4ff13][936f4ff13] docs: Remove outdated comment (Ben Darnell)
- [#24074][#24074] [f9e5ab77a][f9e5ab77a] storage: add option to poison intents on EndTransaction (Spencer Kimball)
- [#24049][#24049] [2de41177b][2de41177b] sql: cleanup database selection in logictest (Andrei Matei)
- [#24017][#24017] [024d8d42d][024d8d42d] sql: Fix deadlock in schema changes with retriable errors (Ben Darnell)
- [#23550][#23550] [0e0a4748e][0e0a4748e] docs: add inverted index diagram (Lauren Hirata)
- [#21095][#21095] [58ab12bdd][58ab12bdd] publish-artifacts: refactor code and add tests (Tobias Schottdorf)
- [#23260][#23260] [856aa1e39][856aa1e39] readme: Remove "1.0" badge (Ben Darnell)
- [#23070][#23070] [f13983057][f13983057] ui: Custom graph debug page (Matt Tracy)
- [#22982][#22982] [290715c8c][290715c8c] Revert "backupccl: unskip test" (Matt Jibson)

### Doc Updates

Docs team: Please add these manually.

### Contributors

This release includes 732 merged PRs by 38 authors. We would like to thank the following contributors from the CockroachDB community, with special thanks to first-time contributors Vijay Karthik, Amruta Ranade, Victor Chen, Bob Vawter, and Rich Loveland.
- Mahmoud Al-Qudsi
- Rich Loveland
- Vijay Karthik

[#21095]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/21095
[#22317]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22317
[#22766]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22766
[#22767]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22767
[#22774]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22774
[#22804]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22804
[#22819]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22819
[#22828]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22828
[#22842]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22842
[#22849]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22849
[#22870]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22870
[#22880]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22880
[#22886]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22886
[#22892]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22892
[#22911]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22911
[#22912]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22912
[#22916]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22916
[#22919]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22919
[#22920]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22920
[#22953]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22953
[#22962]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22962
[#22968]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22968
[#22977]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22977
[#22979]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22979
[#22982]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22982
[#22991]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22991
[#22994]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22994
[#22997]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22997
[#22998]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/22998
[#23005]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23005
[#23006]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23006
[#23017]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23017
[#23036]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23036
[#23044]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23044
[#23045]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23045
[#23051]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23051
[#23057]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23057
[#23070]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23070
[#23077]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23077
[#23082]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23082
[#23104]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23104
[#23114]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23114
[#23116]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23116
[#23126]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23126
[#23136]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23136
[#23142]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23142
[#23162]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23162
[#23169]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23169
[#23175]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23175
[#23178]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23178
[#23183]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23183
[#23197]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23197
[#23202]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23202
[#23204]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23204
[#23211]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23211
[#23221]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23221
[#23230]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23230
[#23233]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23233
[#23235]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23235
[#23252]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23252
[#23255]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23255
[#23258]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23258
[#23260]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23260
[#23261]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23261
[#23265]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23265
[#23282]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23282
[#23292]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23292
[#23298]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23298
[#23301]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23301
[#23334]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23334
[#23363]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23363
[#23370]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23370
[#23399]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23399
[#23409]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23409
[#23412]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23412
[#23418]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23418
[#23441]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23441
[#23463]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23463
[#23465]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23465
[#23466]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23466
[#23479]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23479
[#23496]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23496
[#23512]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23512
[#23516]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23516
[#23517]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23517
[#23521]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23521
[#23530]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23530
[#23533]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23533
[#23541]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23541
[#23546]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23546
[#23550]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23550
[#23560]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23560
[#23572]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23572
[#23573]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23573
[#23617]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23617
[#23618]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23618
[#23637]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23637
[#23657]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23657
[#23678]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23678
[#23687]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23687
[#23698]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23698
[#23717]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23717
[#23720]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23720
[#23725]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23725
[#23727]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23727
[#23729]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23729
[#23744]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23744
[#23753]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23753
[#23760]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23760
[#23768]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23768
[#23787]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23787
[#23797]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23797
[#23803]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23803
[#23804]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23804
[#23810]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23810
[#23813]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23813
[#23814]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23814
[#23824]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23824
[#23825]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23825
[#23834]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23834
[#23841]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23841
[#23843]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23843
[#23844]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23844
[#23851]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23851
[#23852]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23852
[#23861]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23861
[#23869]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23869
[#23876]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23876
[#23904]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23904
[#23913]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23913
[#23926]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23926
[#23930]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23930
[#23934]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23934
[#23973]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23973
[#23995]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/23995
[#24017]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24017
[#24031]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24031
[#24039]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24039
[#24044]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24044
[#24049]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24049
[#24064]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24064
[#24074]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24074
[#24083]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24083
[#24100]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24100
[#24119]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24119
[#24128]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24128
[#24134]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24134
[#24148]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24148
[#24161]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24161
[#24164]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24164
[#24178]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24178
[#24190]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24190
[#24192]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24192
[#24196]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24196
[#24209]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24209
[#24227]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24227
[#24239]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24239
[#24241]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24241
[#24246]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24246
[#24251]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24251
[#24252]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24252
[#24253]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24253
[#24259]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24259
[#24284]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24284
[#24293]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24293
[#24296]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24296
[#24300]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24300
[#24319]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24319
[#24332]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24332
[#24345]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24345
[#24354]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24354
[#24373]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24373
[#24381]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24381
[#24390]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24390
[#24400]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24400
[#24422]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24422
[#24431]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24431
[#24438]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24438
[#24488]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24488
[#24491]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24491
[#24493]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24493
[#24506]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24506
[#24510]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24510
[#24513]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24513
[#24518]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24518
[#24555]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24555
[#24576]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24576
[#24594]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/24594
[31fee8a70]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/31fee8a70
[0e0a4748e]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/0e0a4748e
[856aa1e39]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/856aa1e39
[290715c8c]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/290715c8c
[f8ffa5265]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/f8ffa5265
[f9e5ab77a]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/f9e5ab77a
[58ab12bdd]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/58ab12bdd
[f13983057]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/f13983057
[024d8d42d]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/024d8d42d
[ed0823caa]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/ed0823caa
[936f4ff13]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/936f4ff13
[bd2856221]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/bd2856221
[0d3d76a18]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/0d3d76a18
[2de41177b]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/2de41177b
