---
title: What&#39;s New in v20.2.0
toc: true
summary: Additions and changes in CockroachDB version v20.2.0.
---

## XX, 2020

With the release of CockroachDB v20.2, we've made a variety of productivity, performance, and security improvements. Check out a comprehensive [summary of the most significant user-facing changes](#summary) and then [upgrade to CockroachDB v20.2](../v20.2/upgrade-cockroach-version.html). You can also read more about these changes in the [v20.2 blog post - NEED LINK](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/blog/cockroachdb-20-1-release/).

Get future release notes emailed to you:

<div class="hubspot-install-form install-form-1 clearfix">
    <script>
        hbspt.forms.create({
            css: '',
            cssClass: 'install-form',
            portalId: '1753393',
            formId: '39686297-81d2-45e7-a73f-55a596a8d5ff',
            formInstanceId: 1,
            target: '.install-form-1'
        });
    </script>
</div>

## Downloads

<div id="os-tabs" class="clearfix">
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v20.2.0.darwin-10.9-amd64.tgz"><button id="mac" data-eventcategory="mac-binary-release-notes">Mac</button></a>
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v20.2.0.linux-amd64.tgz"><button id="linux" data-eventcategory="linux-binary-release-notes">Linux</button></a>
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v20.2.0.windows-6.2-amd64.zip"><button id="windows" data-eventcategory="windows-binary-release-notes">Windows</button></a>
    <a href="https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/cockroach-v20.2.0.src.tgz"><button id="source" data-eventcategory="source-release-notes">Source</button></a>
</div>

## Docker image

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
$ docker pull cockroachdb/cockroach:v20.2.0
~~~

## Summary

This section summarizes the most significant, user-facing changes in v20.2.0. For a complete list of features and changes, including bug fixes and performance improvements, see the [release notes](index.html#testing-releases) for previous testing releases.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
"Core" features are freely available in the core version and do not require an enterprise license. "Enterprise" features require an [enterprise license](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/get-cockroachdb/). [CockroachCloud clusters](https://cockroachlabs.cloud/) include all enterprise features.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

- [CockroachCloud](#cockroachcloud)
- [SQL](#sql)
- [Recovery and I/O](#recovery-and-io)
- [Deployment and Operations](#deployment-and-operations)
- [Observability](#observability)
- [Backward-incompatible changes](#backward-incompatible-changes)
- [Known limitations](#known-limitations)
- [Education](#education)

<style>
    table td:first-child {
        min-width: 100px !important;
    }
    table td:nth-child(2) {
        min-width: 200px !important;
    }
</style>

### CockroachCloud

- Disaster Recovery of CockroachCloud Clusters

### SQL

Version | Feature | Description
--------|---------|------------
Core | **Spatial Support** | CockroachDB now supports [spatial data types](../v20.2/spatial-data.html), [spatial indexes](../v20.2/spatial-indexes.html), and [spatial functions](../v20.2/functions-and-operators#spatial-functions), as well as the ability to migrating spatial data from various formats such as [Shapefiles](../v20.2/migrate-from-shapefiles), [GeoJSON](../v20.2/migrate-from-geojson), [GeoPackages](../v20.2/migrate-from-geopackage), and [OpenStreetMap](../v20.2/migrate-from-openstreetmap).
Core | **User-Defined Schemas** | You can now [create user-defined logical schemas](../v20.2/create-schema.html), as well [alter user-defined schemas](../v20.2/alter-schema.html), [drop user-defined schemas](../v20.2/drop-schema.html), and [convert databases to user-defined schemas](../v20.2/convert-to-schema.html).
Core | **Partial Indexes** | You can now use [partial indexes](../v20.2/partial-indexes.html) to specify a subset of rows and columns in a table that evaluate to true on a `WHERE` filter defined at [index creation](#creation).
Core | **`ENUM` data types** | CockroachDB now supports the creation and management of [user-defined `ENUM` data types](../v20.2/enum.html) consisting of sets of enumerated, static values.
Core | **Materialized Views** | CockroachDB now supports [materialized views](../v20.2/views.html#materialized-views), or views that store their selection query results on-disk.
Core | **View Replacement** | CockroachDB now supports [replacing an existing view](../v20.2/create-view.html#replace-an-existing-view) with the `CREATE OR REPLACE VIEW` syntax.  
Core | **Foreign Key Performance and Compatibility** | When adding the [`FOREIGN KEY`](../v20.2/foriegn-key.html) constraint, it is no longer required to have an index on the referencing columns.
Core | **`EXPLAIN` Improvements** | The response of the `EXPLAIN` statement now includes the estimated number of rows scanned by the query as well as other usability improvements.
Core | **Disallowing Full Table Scans** | You can use the new [`disallow_full_table_scans` session variable](..v20.2/set-vars.html) to disallow full table and secondary index scans.   

### Recovery and I/O

Version | Feature | Description
--------|---------|------------
Core | **Backup/Restore in Core Version** | The core version of CockroachDB now lets you perform full cluster backups, all restore options, as well as bulk exports. Incremental backups, locality-aware backups, and other advanced backup functionality continue to require an enterprise license.
Enterprise | **KMS Support for Encrypted Backups** | You can now use [AWS Key Management Service (KMS)](../v20.2/take-and-restore-encrypted-backups.html#use-aws-key-management-service) to encrypt the files that full or incremental backups generate.
Enterprise | **Backup Scheduling** | You can now [create schedules for CockroachDB backups](../v20.2/manage-a-backup-schedule#create-a-new-backup-schedule), as well as [view, pause, resume, and drop backup schedules](../v20.2/manage-a-backup-schedule#view-and-control-the-backup-schedule). Once a scheduled backup is created, you can use [`SHOW BACKUP`](../v20.2/manage-a-backup-schedule#view-scheduled-backup-details) to view the backup details. Note that backup scheduling for full backups is included in the core version of CockroachDB.  
Core | **Import with User-Scoped Storage** | In addition to supporting bulk imports from cloud storage, CockroachDB now lets you [upload CSV files from your local machine to user-scoped file storage](../v20.2/use-userfile-for-bulk-operations.html) in your cluster. Once uploaded, a userfile can be reference by the `IMPORT` command to import data into a table. Userfiles can also be listed and deleted via CLI commands.
Core | **Import with Default Expression** |

### Deployment and Operations

Version | Feature | Description
--------|---------|------------
N/A | Kubernetes Operator | NEED RYAN'S HELP TO SUMMARIZE THIS AND LINK TO THE RIGHT PLACE(S).
Core | **Log Redaction** | When gathering log files via the [`cockroach debug zip`](../v20.2/cockroach-debug-zip.html) or [`cockroach debug merge-logs`](../v20.2/cockroach-debug-merge-logs.html) command, you can use the new `--redact-logs` flag to redact sensitive PII data. Note that this flag removes sensitive information only from the log files; other items collected by the `debug zip` command may still contain sensitive information.
Core | **Certificate Revocation with OCSP** | CockroachDB now supports [certificate revocation](../v20.2/create-security-certificates-custom-ca.html#certificate-revocation-with-OCSP) for custom CA certificate setups running an OCSP server.
Enterprise | **SSO in the Admin UI** | The CockroachDB Admin UI now supports [single sign-on (SSO)](../v20.2/sso.html) via OpenID Connect (OIDC), an authentication layer built on top of OAuth 2.0. When SSO is configured and enabled, the [Admin UI login page](admin-ui-overview.html#admin-ui-access) displays an OAuth login button in addition to the password access option.
Core | **Permission-Based Object Ownership** | NEED AMRUTA'S HELP TO SUMMARIZE THIS AND LINK TO THE RIGHT PLACE(S).
Core | **Fine-Grained SQL Privileges** | NEED AMRUTA'S HELP TO SUMMARIZE THIS AND LINK TO THE RIGHT PLACE(S).

### Observability

Version | Feature | Description
--------|---------|------------
Core | **Transaction Details** | The new [**Transactions** page](admin-ui-transactions-page.html) of the Admin UI shows you details about all client-initiated transactions in the cluster that help you identify and troubleshoot frequently retried and high-latency transactions.
Core | **Sessions Details** | The new [**Sessions** page](../v20.2/admin-ui-sessions-page.html) of the Admin UI shows you details about all active and idle sessions in the cluster, with session age, memory usage, SQL statement, and other details available for active sessions.

### Backward-incompatible changes

Before [upgrading to CockroachDB v20.2](../stable/upgrade-cockroach-version.html), be sure to review the following backward-incompatible changes and adjust your application as necessary.


### Known limitations

For information about new and unresolved limitations in CockroachDB v20.2, with suggested workarounds where applicable, see [Known Limitations](../stable/known-limitations.html).

### Education

Area | Topic | Description
-----|-------|------------
