Term | Definition
-----|------------
**Cluster** | Your CockroachDB deployment, which acts as a single logical application.
**Node** | An individual machine running CockroachDB. Many nodes join together to create your cluster.
**Range** | <a name="architecture-range"></a> CockroachDB stores all user data (tables, indexes, etc.) and almost all system data in a giant sorted map of key-value pairs. This keyspace is divided into "ranges", contiguous chunks of the keyspace, so that every key can always be found in a single range.<br><br>From a SQL perspective, a table and its secondary indexes initially map to a single range, where each key-value pair in the range represents a single row in the table (also called the primary index because the table is sorted by the primary key) or a single row in a secondary index. As soon as that range reaches 512 MiB in size, it splits into two ranges. This process continues for these new ranges as the table and its indexes continue growing.
**Replica** <a name="architecture-replica"></a>| CockroachDB replicates each range (3 times by default) and stores each replica on a different node.
**Leaseholder** <a name="architecture-leaseholder"></a> | For each range, one of the replicas holds the "range lease". This replica, referred to as the "leaseholder", is the one that receives and coordinates all read and write requests for the range.<br><br>Unlike writes, read requests access the leaseholder and send the results to the client without needing to coordinate with any of the other range replicas. This reduces the network round trips involved and is possible because the leaseholder is guaranteed to be up-to-date due to the fact that all write requests also go to the leaseholder.
**Raft Leader** | For each range, one of the replicas is the "leader" for write requests. Via the [Raft consensus protocol](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/{{ page.version.version }}/architecture/replication-layer.html#raft), this replica ensures that a majority of replicas (the leader and enough followers) agree, based on their Raft logs, before committing the write. The Raft leader is almost always the same replica as the leaseholder.
**Raft Log** | For each range, a time-ordered log of writes to the range that its replicas have agreed on. This log exists on-disk with each replica and is the range's source of truth for consistent replication.
