Feature | Description
--------+-------------------------
[Geo-Partitioning](topology-geo-partitioned-replicas.html) | This feature gives you row-level control of how and where your data is stored to dramatically reduce read and write latencies and assist in meeting regulatory requirements in multi-region deployments.
[Follower Reads](follower-reads.html) | This feature reduces read latency in multi-region deployments by using the closest replica at the expense of reading slightly historical data.
[`BACKUP`](backup.html) | This feature creates full or incremental backups of your cluster's schema and data that are consistent as of a given timestamp, stored on a service such as AWS S3, Google Cloud Storage, NFS, or HTTP storage.<br><br>Backups can be locality-aware such that each node writes files only to the backup destination that matches the node's [locality](cockroach-start.html#locality). This is useful for reducing cloud storage data transfer costs by keeping data within cloud regions and complying with data domiciling requirements.
[`RESTORE`](restore.html) | This feature restores your cluster's schemas and data from an enterprise `BACKUP`.
[Change Data Capture](change-data-capture.html) (CDC) | This feature provides efficient, distributed, row-level [change feeds into Apache Kafka](create-changefeed.html) for downstream processing such as reporting, caching, or full-text indexing.
[Node Map](enable-node-map.html) | This feature visualizes the geographical configuration of a cluster by plotting node localities on a world map.
[Locality-Aware Index Selection](cost-based-optimizer.html#preferring-the-nearest-index) | Given [multiple identical indexes](topology-duplicate-indexes.html) that have different locality constraints using [replication zones](configure-replication-zones.html), the cost-based optimizer will prefer the index that is closest to the gateway node that is planning the query. In multi-region deployments, this can lead to performance improvements due to improved data locality and reduced network traffic.
[Encryption at Rest](encryption.html#encryption-at-rest-enterprise) | Supplementing CockroachDB's encryption in flight capabilities, this feature provides transparent encryption of a node's data on the local disk. It allows encryption of all files on disk using AES in counter mode, with all key sizes allowed.
[GSSAPI with Kerberos Authentication](gssapi_authentication.html) | CockroachDB supports the Generic Security Services API (GSSAPI) with Kerberos authentication, which lets you use an external enterprise directory system that supports Kerberos, such as Active Directory.
[`EXPORT`](export.html) | This feature uses the CockroachDB distributed execution engine to quickly get large sets of data out of CockroachDB in a CSV format that can be ingested by downstream systems.
