## v21.2.2

Release Date: December 1, 2021

{% include releases/release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v21-2-2-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- Fixed an oversight in which a full scan of a [partial index](../v21.2/partial-indexes.html) could be rejected due to the [`disallow_full_table_scans`](../v21.2/set-vars.html) setting. Full scans of partial indexes will no longer be rejected if `disallow_full_table_scans` is true, since a full scan of a partial index must be a constrained scan of the table. [#71437][#71437]
- The optimizer has been updated so that if [`disallow_full_table_scans`](../v21.2/set-vars.html) is true, it will never plan a full table scan with an estimated row count greater than `large_full_scan_rows`. If no alternative plan is possible, an error will be returned, just as it was before. However, cases where an alternative plan is possible will no longer produce an error, since the alternative plan will be chosen. As a result, users should see fewer errors due to `disallow_full_table_scans`. A side effect of this change is that if `disallow_full_table_scans` is set along with statement-level hints such as an index hint, the optimizer will try to avoid a full table scan while also respecting the index hint. If this is not possible, the optimizer will return an error and might not log the attempted full table scan or update the `sql.guardrails.full_scan_rejected.count` metric. If no index hint is used, the full scan will be logged and the metric updated. [#71437][#71437]
- Added support for a new [`index hint`](../v21.2/table-expressions.html#force-index-selection), `NO_FULL_SCAN`, which will prevent the optimizer from planning a full scan for the specified table. The hint can be used in the same way as other existing index hints. For example, `SELECT * FROM table_name@{NO_FULL_SCAN};`. Note that a full scan of a partial index may still be planned, unless `NO_FULL_SCAN` is forced in combination with a specific partial index via `FORCE_INDEX=index_name`. [#71437][#71437]
- [`EXPLAIN ANALYZE (DEBUG)`](../v21.2/explain-analyze.html#debug-option) can now be used by [Serverless clusters](../cockroachcloud/quickstart.html). [#71969][#71969]
- The [session variables](../v21.2/set-vars.html#supported-variables) `LC_COLLATE`, `LC_CTYPE`, `LC_MESSAGES`, `LC_MONETARY`, `LC_NUMERIC`, and `LC_TIME` were added for compatibility with PostgreSQL. They only support the `C.UTF-8` locale. [#72260][#72260]
- Fixed an issue where the error message when creating the wrong type of forward index on a JSONB column was not clear. It now suggests creating a [GIN index](../v21.2/inverted-indexes.html). [#72361][#72361]
- Changed the `pgerror` code from `CD` to `XC` for CockroachDB-specific errors. This is because the "C" class is reserved for the SQL standard. The `pgcode` `CDB00` used for unsatisfiable bounded staleness is now `XCUBS`. [#70448][#70448]
- The [`CREATE TABLE ... LIKE ...`](../v21.2/create-table.html) statement now copies `ON UPDATE` definitions for `INCLUDING DEFAULTS`. [#70537][#70537]
- CockroachDB now shows `indpred` on the [`pg_index` table](../v21.2/pg-catalog.html) for [partial indexes](../v21.2/partial-indexes.html). This was previously `NULL` for partial indexes. [#70884][#70884]
- Fixed a bug where [`LINESTRINGZ`, `LINESTRINGZM`, and `LINESTRINGM`](../v21.2/linestring.html) could not be used as a column type. [#70747][#70747]
- Added the [`crdb_internal.reset_index_usage_stats()` function](../v21.2/functions-and-operators.html) to clear index usage stats. This can be invoked from the SQL shell. [#72843][#72843]
- The string "visible" is now usable as a table or column name without extra quoting. [#70563][#70563]
- The `aggregation_interval` column has been added to the [crdb_internal.statement_statistics and crdb_internal.transaction_statistics](../v21.2/crdb-internal.html) tables, representing the aggregation duration of the respective statistics. [#72941][#72941]
- The `diagnostics.sql_stats_reset.interval` [cluster setting](../v21.2/cluster-settings.html) was removed. In previous version of CockroachDB, in-memory SQL statistics were reset periodically. This behavior is now removed since persisted SQL Statistics were introduced in v21.2. The `diagnostics.forced_sql_stats_reset.interval` cluster setting now only controls the reset of the reported SQL statistics if it is not collected by the telemetry reporter. [#72941][#72941]

<h3 id="v21-2-2-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- [Job IDs](../v21.2/show-jobs.html) and [Session IDs](../v21.2/show-sessions.html) are no longer redacted. These values do not represent sensitive or identifiable data, but do aid in debugging problems with the jobs system. [#72975][#72975]

<h3 id="v21-2-2-command-line-changes">Command-line changes</h3>

- The [SQL shell](../v21.2/cockroach-sql.html) now supports a `\statement-diag` command for listing and downloading [statement diagnostics bundles](../v21.2/explain-analyze.html#debug-option). [#71969][#71969]

<h3 id="v21-2-2-api-endpoint-changes">API endpoint changes</h3>

- The `aggregationInterval` field has been added to combined statements response. [#72941][#72941]

<h3 id="v21-2-2-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- The [Session](../v21.2/ui-sessions-page.html), [Statements](../v21.2/ui-statements-page.html), and [Transactions](../v21.2/ui-transactions-page.html) pages are now grouped inside the new SQL Activity page. [#72052][#72052]
- The [Statement Details page](../v21.2/ui-statements-page.html#statement-details-page) and [Transaction Details page](../v21.2/ui-transactions-page.html#transaction-details-page) now show the mean rows written metric. [#72006][#72006]
- A new **Rows Written** column has been added to the [Statements](../v21.2/ui-statements-page.html) and [Transactions](../v21.2/ui-transactions-page.html) tables. This column will not show up by default, but can be selected from the column selector. [#72006][#72006]
- The tooltip text on the Statement column of the [Sessions table](../v21.2/ui-sessions-page.html) was edited to clarify that we show only currently active statements. [#72100][#72100]
- The **Not Found** page was updated. [#72758][#72758]
- The [Statements page](../v21.2/ui-statements-page.html) now uses `$ internal` on the filter to align with the [Transactions page](../v21.2/ui-transactions-page.html). [#72755][#72755]
- The Application filter on the [Transactions](../v21.2/ui-transactions-page.html) and [Statement](../v21.2/ui-statements-page.html) pages is now multi-select. [#72755][#72755]
- The default value when no Application is selected on the Transactions and Statements filter now excludes internal transactions and statements. [#72755][#72755]
- There is now a new page that is displayed when something goes wrong and the page crashes. [#72796][#72796]
- Fixed an issue on the [Metrics pages](../v21.2/ui-overview-dashboard.html) where graphs didn't show data for date ranges older than 10 days. [#72864][#72864]
- [Metrics pages](../v21.2/ui-overview-dashboard.html) now show gaps instead of data interpolation. [#72864][#72864] and [#72744][#72744]
- Node events now display a permission error rather than an internal server error when the user does not have [`ADMIN` privileges to view events](../v21.2/ui-overview.html). [#72792][#72792]
- Fixed an issue with drag-to-zoom granularity. [#72855][#72855]
- The `Interval Start Time (UTC)` column on the [Statements](../v21.2/ui-statements-page.html) and [Transactions](../v21.2/ui-transactions-page.html) pages has been renamed `Aggregation Interval (UTC)` and is the interval of aggregation. The [Statement Details page](../v21.2/ui-statements-page.html#statement-details-page) now also displays the interval for which the user is viewing statement details. [#72941][#72941]
- The [Transaction Details page](../v21.2/ui-transactions-page.html#transaction-details-page) now shows statement statistics scoped by the transaction fingerprint. [#72941][#72941]

<h3 id="v21-2-2-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- When using the `json-fluent` and `json-fluent-compact` [logging formats](../v21.2/log-formats.html), the `tag` field now uses the same normalization algorithm as used for output to files. That is, if the CockroachDB executable is renamed to contain periods (e.g., `cockroach.testbinary`), the periods are now eliminated instead of replaced by `_`. This is the behavior that was originally intended. This change does not affect deployments that use the standard executable name `cockroach`. [#71075][#71075]
- The [`cockroach debug zip` command](../v21.2/cockroach-debug-zip.html), the [`cockroach debug list-files` command](../v21.2/cockroach-debug-list-files.html), and the [Advanced Debug page](../v21.2/ui-debug-pages.html) that enables log file access, are now able to gather log files stored across all configured logging directories. Prior to this patch, only log files from the directory associated with the `DEV` file sink were visible. This bug had existed since CockroachDB v19.x.  Note that the behavior remains incomplete if two or more file groups in the logging configuration use similar names that only differ in their use of periods (e.g., a file group named `one.two` and another one named `onetwo`). To avoid any issue related to this situation, use more distinct file group names. [#71075][#71075]
- Fixed a bug where usernames in [`ALTER TABLE ... OWNER TO`](../v21.2/owner-to.html) would not be normalized to lower case. [#72470][#72470]
- Fixed a bug where the Show All filter on the [Statements page](../v21.2/ui-statements-page.html) didn't display all the statements when with an empty string in the search box. [#72052][#72052]
- Fixed a bug in prior betas of v21.2 where some error codes returned when looking for a descriptor in a non-existent database were changed from `UndefinedDatabase (3D000)` to `UndefinedObject (42704)`. Name resolution when the current database is undefined will now return `UndefinedDatabase`. [#71566][#71566]
- Fixed an incorrect `no data source matches prefix` error for queries that use a set-returning function on the right-hand side of a [`JOIN`](../v21.2/joins.html) unless `LATERAL` is explicitly specified. [#71445][#71445]
- Fixed a bug where using [`CREATE TABLE AS ....`](../v21.2/create-table-as.html) with a source query that referred to a sequence would not work. [#71541][#71541]
- Support was added for the `"{}"` format for array columns in [`COPY FROM STDIN WITH CSV`](../v21.2/copy-from.html). [#72693][#72693]
- Fixed a bug which caused [`ALTER COLUMN TYPE`](../v21.2/alter-column.html) statements to incorrectly fail. [#71165][#71165]
- Fixed potential descriptor corruption bug for tables with a column with a [`DEFAULT`](../v21.2/default-value.html) expression referencing a [`SEQUENCE`](../v21.2/create-sequence.html) and with an [`ON UPDATE` expression](../v21.2/create-table.html#on-update-expressions). [#72362][#72362]
- Fixed a bug where [schema changes](../v21.2/online-schema-changes.html) running during node shutdown could sometimes fail permanently when they should not. [#72333][#72333]
- Fixed a panic that could occur with invalid [GeoJSON](../v21.2/geojson.html) input using `ST_GeomFromGeoJSON/ST_GeogFromGeoJSON`. [#71309][#71309]
- Fixed a bug where specifying [`IntervalStyle`](../v21.2/interval.html) or [`DateStyle`](../v21.2/date.html) on `options=-c...` in a [connection string](../v21.2/connection-parameters.html#connect-using-a-url) would fail, even if the `sql.defaults.datestyle.enabled` and `sql.defaults.intervalstyle.enabled` [cluster settings](../v21.2/cluster-settings.html) were set. [#72067][#72067]
- Fixed a bug where [session variables](../v21.2/set-vars.html) passed in the [connection string](../v21.2/connection-parameters.html#connect-using-a-url) were case-sensitive. Now they are all correctly normalized to lower case. [#72067][#72067]
- Fixed a bug where `atttypmod` in [`pg_catalog.pg_attributes`](../v21.2/pg-catalog.html) for [`DECIMAL`](../v21.2/decimal.html) types with precision but no width was incorrectly `-1`. [#72074][#72074]
- Fixed a bug where the [`setval`](../v21.2/create-sequence.html#sequence-functions) function did not invalidate cached sequence values. [#71821][#71821]
- Fixed a bug where when creating an object [default privileges](../v21.2/authorization.html) from users that were not the user creating the object would be added to the privileges of the object. This fix ensures only the relevant default privileges are applied. [#72410][#72410]
- Fixed a bug where Z and M coordinate columns caused a panic for [`geometry_columns` and `geography_columns`](../v21.2/spatial-glossary.html#spatial-system-tables). [#70814][#70814]
- Fixed a bug where certain [schema changes](../v21.2/online-schema-changes.html) (e.g., SET NULL) did not work if there was an [expression index](../v21.2/expression-indexes.html) on the table. [#72024][#72024]
- The connect timeout for [`grpc` connections](../v21.2/architecture/distribution-layer.html#grpc) is set to 20s to match the pre-v20.2 default value. [#71517][#71517]
- [`IMPORT INTO`](../v21.2/import-into.html) no longer crashes when encountering unresolved write intents. [#71983][#71983]
- Fixed an incorrect bug hint for the `sql.defaults.datestyle.enabled` [cluster setting](../v21.2/cluster-settings.html). [#70900][#70900]
- Fixed a bug which caused internal errors when collecting statistics on tables with [virtual computed columns](../v21.2/computed-columns.html). [#71234][#71234]
- Fixed a bug that incorrectly populated the `indkey` column of [`pg_catalog.pg_index`](../v21.2/pg-catalog.html) for [expression indexes](../v21.2/expression-indexes.html). This bug was present since the introduction of expression indexes in version 21.2.0. [#72064][#72064]
- Fixed a bug where some queries against the [`pg_catalog.pg_type`](../v21.2/pg-catalog.html) could throw an error if they looked up a non-existent ID. [#72885][#72885]
- Corrected how the `type` displays for ZM shapes [`geometry_columns`](../v21.2/spatial-glossary.html#spatial-system-tables) to match PostGIS output. This previously incorrectly included the Z/M lettering. [#72809][#72809]
- Corrected how `type` displays in [`geometry_columns`](../v21.2/spatial-glossary.html#spatial-system-tables) to better match PostGIS. This previously used the wrong case. [#72809][#72809]
- Fixed a bug where CockroachDB could encounter an internal error when executing a [zigzag join](../v21.2/cost-based-optimizer.html#zigzag-joins) in some cases (when there are multiple filters present and at least one filter refers to the column that is part of `STORING` clause of the secondary index that is used by the zigzag join). [#71253][#71253]
- Fixed a bug where CockroachDB could not set the `TableOID` and `TableAttributeNumber` attributes of the `RowDescription` message of the `pgwire` protocol in some cases (these values would be left as 0). [#72450][#72450]
- Fixed a bug where CockroachDB could encounter an internal error or crash when some queries involving tuples with [`ENUMs`](../v21.2/enum.html) were executed in a distributed manner. [#72482][#72482]
- Fixed a bug where if tracing (the `sql.trace.txn.enable_threshold` [cluster setting](../v21.2/cluster-settings.html)) was enabled on the cluster, the statement diagnostics collection ([`EXPLAIN ANALYZE (DEBUG)`](../v21.2/explain-analyze.html#debug-option)) wouldn't work. [#70023][#70023]
- Fixed a bug causing tracing to external tracers to inadvertently stop after the Enqueue Range or the Allocator debug pages was used. [#72465][#72465]
- Fixed a bug preventing tuple type labels from being propagated across queries when run under [DistSQL](../v21.2/architecture/sql-layer.html#distsql). [#70392][#70392]
- CockroachDB is now less likely to OOM when queries reading a lot of data are issued with high concurrency (these queries are likely to hit the memory budget determined by [`--max-sql-memory` startup parameter](../v21.2/cockroach-start.html#general)). [#70809][#70809]
- The `indexprs` column of [`pg_catalog.pg_index`](../v21.2/pg-catalog.html) is now populated with string representations of every expression element in the index. If the index is not an [expression index](../v21.2/expression-indexes.html), `indexprs` is `NULL`. The `indexdef` column of `pg_catalog.pg_indexes` and the `indpred` column of `pg_catalog.pg_index` now correctly display user-defined types. [#72870][#72870]
- Fixed a bug where introspection tables and error messages would not correctly display intervals according to the `intervalstyle` [session variable](../v21.2/set-vars.html). [#72690][#72690]
- Fixed a bug where index definitions in [`pg_catalog.pg_indexes`](../v21.2/pg-catalog.html) would not format intervals according to the `intervalstyle` [session variable](../v21.2/set-vars.html). [#72903][#72903]
- [Statement statistics](../v21.2/ui-statements-page.html#statement-statistics) are now grouped by the statement's corresponding transaction fingerprints. [#72941][#72941]
- The query backing [`crdb_internal.cluster_contended_indexes`](../v21.2/crdb-internal.html) improperly assumed that index IDs were unique across the database. This change adds the proper scoping by table descriptor ID, truing up the contents of that view. [#73025][#73025]

<h3 id="v21-2-2-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- Fixed a performance regression in planning that could occur for simple queries on schemas with a large number of indexes. [#72240][#72240]
- The conversion of [Well Known Text](../v21.2/well-known-text.html) to a spatial type is improved. [#70182][#70182]
- Improved [`IMPORT INTO`](../v21.2/import-into.html) performance in cases where it encounters large numbers of unresolved write intents. [#72271][#72271]
- Fixed a limitation that made creating [partial indexes](../v21.2/partial-indexes.html) inefficient. [#70205][#70205]
- Backfills initiated by schema changes now periodically checkpoint progress to avoid excessive re-emitting of already emitted spans. [#72788][#72788]

<div class="release-note-contributors">

<h3 id="v21-2-2-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 133 merged PRs by 45 authors.
We would like to thank the following contributors from the CockroachDB community:

- neeral

</div>

[#70023]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70023
[#70182]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70182
[#70205]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70205
[#70392]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70392
[#70448]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70448
[#70489]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70489
[#70537]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70537
[#70563]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70563
[#70747]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70747
[#70809]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70809
[#70814]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70814
[#70884]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70884
[#70900]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70900
[#71075]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/71075
[#71165]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/71165
[#71234]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/71234
[#71253]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/71253
[#71309]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/71309
[#71437]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/71437
[#71445]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/71445
[#71517]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/71517
[#71541]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/71541
[#71566]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/71566
[#71821]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/71821
[#71964]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/71964
[#71969]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/71969
[#71983]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/71983
[#72006]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72006
[#72024]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72024
[#72051]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72051
[#72052]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72052
[#72064]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72064
[#72067]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72067
[#72074]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72074
[#72100]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72100
[#72240]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72240
[#72260]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72260
[#72271]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72271
[#72333]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72333
[#72361]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72361
[#72362]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72362
[#72410]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72410
[#72450]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72450
[#72465]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72465
[#72470]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72470
[#72482]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72482
[#72657]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72657
[#72690]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72690
[#72693]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72693
[#72744]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72744
[#72755]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72755
[#72758]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72758
[#72788]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72788
[#72792]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72792
[#72796]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72796
[#72809]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72809
[#72843]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72843
[#72855]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72855
[#72864]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72864
[#72870]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72870
[#72885]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72885
[#72903]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72903
[#72941]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72941
[#72951]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72951
[#72975]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/72975
[#73025]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/73025
[7b7cbcd33]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/7b7cbcd33
[8cb96beab]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/8cb96beab
