## v21.2.4

Release Date: January 10, 2022

{% include releases/release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v21-2-4-security-updates">Security updates</h3>

- It is now possible to pre-compute the hash of the password credentials of a SQL user client-side, and set the SQL user's password using the hash, so that CockroachDB never sees the password string in the clear in the SQL session. This auto-detection is subject to the new [cluster setting](../v21.2/cluster-settings.html) `server.user_login.store_client_pre_hashed_passwords.enabled`. This setting defaults to `true` (i.e., feature enabled). This feature is meant for use in automation/orchestration, when the control plane constructs passwords for users outside of CockroachDB, and there is an architectural desire to ensure that cleartext passwords are not transmitted/stored in-clear. Note: **when the client provides the password hash, CockroachDB cannot carry any checks on the internal structure of the password,** such as minimum length, special characters, etc. Should a deployment require such checks to be performed database-side, the operator would need to disable the mechanism via the [cluster setting](../v21.2/cluster-settings.html) named above. When upgrading a cluster from a previous version, to ensure that the feature remains disabled throughout the upgrade, use the following statement prior to the upgrade: `INSERT INTO system.settings(name, value, "valueType") VALUES('server.user_login.store_client_pre_hashed_passwords.enabled', 'false', 'b');`.  (We do not recommend relying on the database to perform password checks. Our recommended deployment best practice is to implement credential definitions in a control plane / identity provider that is separate from the database.) [#73855][#73855]
- The `server.identity_map.configuration` [cluster setting](../v21.2/cluster-settings.html) allows a `pg_ident.conf` file to be uploaded to support dynamically remapping system identities (e.g., Kerberos or X.509 principals) to database usernames. This supports use cases where X.509 certificates must conform to organizational standards that mandate the use of Common Names that are not valid SQL usernames (e.g., `CN=carl@example.com` => `carl`). Mapping rules that result in the `root`, `node`, or other reserved usernames will result in an error when the client attempts to connect. [#74459][#74459]
- The `client_authentication_info` structured log message provides a new `"SystemIdentity"` field with the client-provided system identity. The existing `"User"` field will be populated after any Host-Based Authentication (HBA) rules have been selected and applied, which may include a system-identity to database-username mapping. [#74459][#74459]
- GSSAPI-based authentication can now use either the HBA `"map"` option or `"include_realm=0"` to map the incoming principal to a database username. Existing configurations will operate unchanged, however operators are encouraged to migrate from `"include_realm=0"` to `"map"` to avoid ambiguity in deployments where multiple realms are present. [#74459][#74459]
- Incoming system identities are normalized to lower-case before they are evaluated against any active identity-mapping HBA configuration. For example, an incoming GSSAPI principal `"carl@EXAMPLE.COM"` would only be matched by rules such as `"example carl@example.com carl"` or `"example /^(.*)@example.com$ \1"`. [#74459][#74459]

<h3 id="v21-2-4-{{ site.data.products.enterprise | downcase | replace: " ", "-" }}-edition-changes">{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} edition changes</h3>

- [Changefeeds](../v21.2/change-data-capture-overview.html) can be created with a new option called `metrics_label` which lets operators configure changefeeds to use a dedicated set of metrics for those changefeed(s) so that they can be monitored independently of other changefeed(s) in the system. [#73014][#73014]

<h3 id="v21-2-4-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- The [`create_type_statements` table](../v21.2/crdb-internal.html#create_type_statements) now has an index on `descriptor_id`. [#73669][#73669]
- Added the new column `stmt` to the [`crdb_internal.(cluster|node)_distsql_flows` virtual table](../v21.2/crdb-internal.html#data-exposed-by-crdb_internal). It is populated on a best effort basis. [#73581][#73581]
- [Table backups](../v21.2/backup.html#backup-a-table-or-view) of [`REGIONAL BY ROW`](../v21.2/multiregion-overview.html#regional-by-row-tables), [`REGIONAL BY TABLE`](../v21.2/multiregion-overview.html#regional-tables), and [`GLOBAL` tables](../v21.2/multiregion-overview.html#global-tables) are now supported. [#73087][#73087]
- The [cluster setting](../v21.2/cluster-settings.html) called `sql.defaults.reorder_joins_limit` that controls the default for the [session setting](../v21.2/set-vars.html) `reorder_joins_limit` is now public and included in the [cluster setting docs](../v21.2/cluster-settings.html). [#73889][#73889]
- The `RULE` [privilege](../v21.2/security-reference/authorization.html#privileges) was added for compatibility with PostgreSQL. It is impossible to grant it, but it is supported as a parameter of the `has_table_privilege` [function](../v21.2/functions-and-operators.html#compatibility-functions). [#74065][#74065]
- The [`CREATE ROLE`](../v21.2/create-role.html) and [`ALTER ROLE`](../v21.2/alter-role.html) statements now accept password hashes computed by the client app. For example: `CREATE USER foo WITH PASSWORD 'CRDB-BCRYPT$2a$10$.....'`. This feature is not meant for use by human users / in interactive sessions; it is meant for use in programs, using the computation algorithm described below. This auto-detection can be disabled by changing the [cluster setting](../v21.2/cluster-settings.html) `server.user_login.store_client_pre_hashed_passwords.enabled` to `false`. This design mimics the behavior of PostgreSQL, which recognizes pre-computed password hashes when presented to the regular [`PASSWORD` option](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/14/sql-createrole.html). The password hashes are auto-detected based on their lexical structure. For example, any password that starts with the prefix `CRDB-BCRYPT$`, followed by a valid encoding of a bcrypt hash (as detailed below), is considered a candidate password hash. To ascertain whether a password hash will be recognized as such, orchestration code can use the new [built-in function](../v21.2/functions-and-operators.html#system-info-functions) `crdb_internal.check_password_hash_format()`. [#73855][#73855]
    - CockroachDB only recognizes password hashes computed using bcrypt, as follows (we detail this algorithm so that orchestration software can implement their own password hash computation, separate from the database):
        1. Take the cleartext password string.
        2. Append the following byte array to the password: `e3b0c44298fc1c149afbf4c8996fb92427ae41e4649b934ca495991b7852b855` (These are 32 hex-encoded bytes.)
        3. Choose a bcrypt cost. (CockroachDB servers use cost 10 by default.)
        4. Generate a bcrypt hash of the string generated at step 2 with the cost chosen at step 3, as per [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bcrypt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bcrypt) or [https://bcrypt.online/](https://bcrypt.online/) Note that CockroachDB only supports hashes computed using bcrypt version 2a.
        5. Encode the hash into the format recognized by CockroachDB: the string `CRDB-BCRYPT`, followed by the standard bcrypt hash encoding (`$2a$...`).

            Summary:

            | Hash method     | Recognized by `check_password_hash_format()` | ALTER/CREATE USER WITH PASSWORD                                             |
            |-----------------+----------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
            | `crdb-bcrypt`   | yes (`CRDB-BCRYPT$2a$...`)                   | recognized if enabled via [cluster setting](../v21.2/cluster-settings.html) |
            | `scram-sha-256` | yes (`SCRAM-SHA-256$4096:...`)               | not implemented yet (issue [#42519][#42519])                                |
            | `md5`           | yes (`md5...`)                               | obsolete, will likely not be implemented                                    |

- Backported the `server.user_login.store_client_pre_hashed_passwords.enabled` [cluster setting](../v21.2/cluster-settings.html) to v21.2. The backported default value in v21.2 is `false`. In v22.1 the default will be `true`. [#73855][#73855]

<h3 id="v21-2-4-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- Added a new [cluster setting](../v21.2/cluster-settings.html) `bulkio.ingest.flush_delay` to act as a last-resort option to manually slow bulk-writing processes if needed for cluster stability. This should only be used if there is no better suited back-pressure mechanism available for the contended resource. [#73758][#73758]
- The [license expiry metric](../v21.2/licensing-faqs.html#monitor-for-license-expiry) is now available in the [DB Console](../v21.2/ui-overview.html) and includes the expected `HELP` and `TYPE` annotations in [the Prometheus output on `_status/vars`](../v21.2/monitoring-and-alerting.html#prometheus-endpoint). [#73859][#73859]

<h3 id="v21-2-4-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- Added new formatting functions to create summarized queries for [`SELECT`](../v21.2/selection-queries.html), [`INSERT`](../v21.2/insert.html), and [`UPDATE`](../v21.2/update.html) statements. Also added new metadata fields, which will later be used to pass this information to the front-end [Statements page](../v21.2/ui-statements-page.html). [#73661][#73661]
- The [jobs overview table in DB Console](../v21.2/ui-jobs-page.html) now shows when jobs have the status "reverting", and shows the badge "retrying" when running or reverting jobs are also retrying. Hovering over the status for a "retrying" job will show the "Next execution time" in UTC. Two new columns, "Last Execution Time (UTC)" and "Execution Count", were also added to the jobs overview table in DB Console, and the "Status" column was moved left to the second column in the table. The `status` query parameter in the `/jobs` endpoint now supports the values `reverting` and `retrying`. [#73624][#73624]
- Added new statement summaries to the [Statements page](../v21.2/ui-statements-page.html). This applies for [`SELECT`](../v21.2/selection-queries.html), [`INSERT`](../v21.2/insert.html)/[`UPSERT`](../v21.2/upsert.html), and [`UPDATE`](../v21.2/update.html) statements, and will enable them to be more detailed and less ambiguous than our previous formats. [#73661][#73661]
- Added new summarized formats for [`SELECT`](../v21.2/selection-queries.html), [`INSERT`](../v21.2/insert.html)/[`UPSERT`](../v21.2/upsert.html), and [`UPDATE`](../v21.2/update.html) statements on the [Sessions page](../v21.2/ui-sessions-page.html) and the [Transactions page](../v21.2/ui-transactions-page.html), to be consistent with the [Statements page](../v21.2/ui-statements-page.html). Show "Mean rows written" as a metric for all statement types on the [Statements page](../v21.2/ui-statements-page.html), instead of hiding this metric for [`SELECT`](../v21.2/selection-queries.html) statements. [#73661][#73661]
- Made visual improvements to the [DB Console](../v21.2/ui-overview.html). [#73386][#73386]
- Updated text of filter drop-downs in the [DB Console](../v21.2/ui-overview.html), replacing "usage" with "statement" for consistency. [#74421][#74421]

<h3 id="v21-2-4-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug which caused corruption of [partial indexes](../v21.2/partial-indexes.html), which could cause incorrect query results. The bug was only present when two or more partial indexes in the same table had identical [`WHERE` clauses](../v21.2/select-clause.html#where-clause). This bug has been present since [v21.1.0](v21.1.html#v21-1-0). For more information, see [Technical Advisory 74385](../advisories/a74385.html). [#74471][#74471]
- Fixed an internal error `"empty Datums being compared to other"` that could occur during planning for some [`SELECT`](../v21.2/selection-queries.html) queries over tables that included a `DEFAULT` partition value in a [`PARTITION BY LIST`](../v21.2/partition-by.html#define-a-list-partition-on-a-table-or-secondary-index) clause. This bug was present since [v21.1.0](v21.1.html#v21-1-0). This bug does not exist in CockroachDB v20.2.x and earlier. [#73664][#73664]
- Fixed a bug that could cause a CockroachDB node to deadlock upon startup in extremely rare cases. If encountered, a stack trace generated by `SIGQUIT` would show the function `makeStartLine()` near the top. This bug had existed since [v21.1.0](v21.1.html#v21-1-0). [#71407][#71407]
- Fixed a bug where CockroachDB could crash when reading a [secondary index with a `STORING` clause](../v21.2/indexes.html#storing-columns) in reverse direction (i.e., with `ORDER BY col DESC`). This bug was introduced in [v21.2.0](v21.2.html#v21-2-0). [#73699][#73699]
- Fixed a bug where the correct index count was not displayed in the **Indexes** column on the [Databases page](../v21.2/ui-databases-page.html) of the DB Console. [#73747][#73747]
- Fixed a bug where a failed [`IMPORT INTO`](../v21.2/import-into.html) to a non-empty table would be unable to clean up the partially imported data when run in a [serverless cluster](../v21.2/deploy-lambda-function.html) because the operation to do so was incorrectly denied for tenants. [#73541][#73541]
- Fixed a bug in database and schema [restore](../v21.2/restore.html) cleanup that results in a dangling descriptor entry on job failure. [#73411][#73411]
- Fixed a bug which allowed queries to reference internal columns created by the system for [expression indexes](../v21.2/expression-indexes.html). These columns, which had names prefixed with `crdb_internal_idx_expr`, can no longer be referenced in queries. This bug was present since version [v21.2.0](v21.2.html#v21-2-0) when expression indexes were released. [#74285][#74285]
- Fixed a bug with ungraceful shutdown of distributed queries in some rare cases. "Ungraceful" here means due to a `statement_timeout` (most likely) or because a node crashed. [#73958][#73958]
- Fixed a bug where CockroachDB could return a spurious "context canceled" error for a query that actually succeeded in extremely rare cases. [#73958][#73958]
- Fixed a bug where CockroachDB could encounter an internal error when executing queries with multiple window functions and one of those functions returned an [`INT2` or `INT4` type](../v21.2/int.html#names-and-aliases). [#74311][#74311]
- Fixed a bug where it was possible for [`cockroach debug zip`](../v21.2/cockroach-debug-zip.html) and the log file viewer in the [DB Console](../v21.2/ui-overview.html) to observe incomplete log entries at the end of log files—especially the log file currently being written to by the CockroachDB process. This bug was introduced in a very early version of CockroachDB. [#74153][#74153]
- Fixed a bug where [Changefeeds](../v21.2/change-data-capture-overview.html) would emit _NULL_ values for [virtual computed columns](../v21.2/computed-columns.html#virtual-computed-columns). Previously, the changefeeds would crash if these were set to `NOT NULL`. [#74095][#74095]
- Internal columns created by the system to support [expression indexes](../v21.2/expression-indexes.html) are now omitted from the output of [`SHOW COLUMNS`](../v21.2/show-columns.html) statements and the [`information_schema.columns` table](../v21.2/information-schema.html#columns). [#73540][#73540]
- Fixed a bug where [`IMPORT TABLE ... PGDUMP DATA`](../v21.2/migrate-from-postgres.html) with a [`COPY FROM`](../v21.2/copy-from.html) statement in the dump file that had fewer target columns than the inline table definition would result in a nil pointer exception. [#74435][#74435]
- Fixed a bug where escape character processing was missing from constraint span generation, which resulted in incorrect results when doing escaped [`LIKE` lookups](../v21.2/scalar-expressions.html#string-pattern-matching). [#74259][#74259]
- Fixed a bug affecting the [redactability of logging tags in output log entries](../v21.2/configure-logs.html#redact-logs). This bug was introduced in [the v21.2.0 release](v21.2.html#v21-2-0). [#74155][#74155]

<h3 id="v21-2-4-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- Bulk ingestion of small write batches (e.g., [index](../v21.2/indexes.html) backfill into a large number of [ranges](../v21.2/architecture/distribution-layer.html#overview)) is now throttled, to avoid buildup of read amplification and associated performance degradation. Concurrency is controlled by the new [cluster setting](../v21.2/cluster-settings.html) `kv.bulk_io_write.concurrent_addsstable_as_writes_requests`. [#74071][#74071]

<h3 id="v21-2-4-miscellaneous">Miscellaneous</h3>

- Added admit and commit latency metrics to [changefeeds](../v21.2/change-data-capture-overview.html). [#73014][#73014]
- Updated and improved the set of sink specific [changefeed](../v21.2/change-data-capture-overview.html) metrics. [#73014][#73014]

<h3 id="v21-2-4-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 57 merged PRs by 31 authors.

[#42519]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/42519
[#71407]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/71407
[#73014]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/73014
[#73087]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/73087
[#73386]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/73386
[#73411]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/73411
[#73540]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/73540
[#73541]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/73541
[#73581]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/73581
[#73624]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/73624
[#73661]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/73661
[#73664]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/73664
[#73669]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/73669
[#73696]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/73696
[#73699]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/73699
[#73747]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/73747
[#73758]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/73758
[#73855]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/73855
[#73859]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/73859
[#73889]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/73889
[#73958]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/73958
[#74065]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/74065
[#74071]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/74071
[#74095]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/74095
[#74125]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/74125
[#74153]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/74153
[#74155]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/74155
[#74204]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/74204
[#74259]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/74259
[#74285]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/74285
[#74311]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/74311
[#74421]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/74421
[#74435]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/74435
[#74459]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/74459
[#74471]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/74471
[aa1e94d62]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/aa1e94d62
[bf543d36b]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/bf543d36b
[cb1a3ffdd]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/cb1a3ffdd
[d3eb7c624]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/commit/d3eb7c624
