## v21.2.0

Release Date: November 16, 2021

With the release of CockroachDB v21.2, we've made a variety of management, performance, and compatibility improvements. Check out a [summary of the most significant user-facing changes](#v21-2-0-feature-summary) and then [upgrade to CockroachDB v21.2](../v21.2/upgrade-cockroach-version.html).

To learn more:

- Read the [v21.2 blog post](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/blog/cockroachdb-21-2-release/).
- Watch the [live demo and Q&A session](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/webinars/cockroachdb-21-2-release-na) recorded on Tuesday, December 7.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}
During an upgrade of a CockroachDB cluster from v21.1.x → v21.2.0, [backups](../v21.2/take-full-and-incremental-backups.html) will fail until the upgrade is [finalized](../v21.2/upgrade-cockroach-version.html#step-3-decide-how-the-upgrade-will-be-finalized). After the upgrade is complete and finalized, backups will continue as normal.

This issue will only occur if the upgrade coincides with a backup. For small clusters, where the upgrade is quick, there may be no overlap, and you will not experience this issue.

For more information, including mitigation, see [Technical Advisory 72389](../advisories/a72839.html).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

{% include releases/release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v21-2-0-{{ site.data.products.db | downcase | replace: " ", "-" }}">{{ site.data.products.db }}</h3>

- <a href="https://cockroachlabs.cloud/signup?referralId=docs_crdb_release_notes" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Get a free v21.2 cluster on {{ site.data.products.serverless }}</a>.
- Learn about recent updates to {{ site.data.products.db }} in the [{{ site.data.products.db }} Release Notes](cloud.html).

<h3 id="v21-2-0-feature-summary">Feature summary</h3>

This section summarizes the most significant user-facing changes in v21.2.0. For a complete list of features and changes, including bug fixes and performance improvements, see the [release notes](index.html#testing-releases) for previous testing releases. You can also search for [what's new in v21.2 in our docs](../search.html?query=new%20in%20v21.2).

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
"Core" features are freely available in the core version of CockroachDB and do not require an enterprise license. "Enterprise" features require an [enterprise license](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/get-cockroachdb/enterprise). [{{ site.data.products.db }} clusters](https://cockroachlabs.cloud/) include all enterprise features. You can also use [`cockroach demo`](../v21.2/cockroach-demo.html) to test enterprise features in a local, temporary cluster.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

- [SQL](#v21-2-0-sql)
- [Recovery and I/O](#v21-2-0-recovery-and-i-o)
- [Database operations](#v21-2-0-database-operations)
- [Backward-incompatible changes](#v21-2-0-backward-incompatible-changes)
- [Deprecations](#v21-2-0-deprecations)
- [Known limitations](#v21-2-0-known-limitations)
- [Education](#v21-2-0-education)

<style>
    table td:first-child {
        min-width: 100px !important;
    }
    table td:nth-child(2) {
        min-width: 200px !important;
    }
</style>

<h4 id="v21-2-0-sql">SQL</h4>

Version    | Feature                        | Description
-----------+--------------------------------+------------------------------
Enterprise | **Multi-region observability** | You can now surface region information by using the [`EXPLAIN ANALYZE`](../v21.2/explain-analyze.html) statements. This information is also now available in the [DB Console](#v21-2-0-multi-region-db-console).
Enterprise | **Restricted and default placement** | You can now use the [`ALTER DATABASE ... PLACEMENT RESTRICTED`](../v21.2/placement-restricted.html) statement to constrain the replica placement for a [multi-region database](../v21.2/multiregion-overview.html)'s [regional tables](../v21.2/regional-tables.html) to the [home regions](../v21.2/set-locality.html#crdb_region) associated with those tables.
Enterprise | **Bounded staleness reads**    | [Bounded staleness reads](../v21.2/follower-reads.html#bounded-staleness-reads) are now available in CockroachDB. These use a dynamic, system-determined timestamp to minimize staleness while being more tolerant to replication lag than exact staleness reads. This dynamic timestamp is returned by the `with_min_timestamp()` or `with_max_staleness()` [functions](../v21.2/functions-and-operators.html). In addition, bounded staleness reads provide the ability to serve reads from local replicas even in the presence of [network partitions](../v21.2/cluster-setup-troubleshooting.html#network-partition) or other failures.
Core       | **Privilege inheritance**      | CockroachDB's model for inheritance of privileges that cascade from schema objects now matches PostgreSQL. Added support for [`ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGES`](../v21.2/alter-default-privileges.html) and [`SHOW DEFAULT PRIVILEGES`](../v21.2/show-default-privileges.html).
Core       | **`ON UPDATE` expressions**    | An [`ON UPDATE` expression](../v21.2/add-column.html#add-a-column-with-an-on-update-expression) can now be added to a column to update column values when an [`UPDATE`](../v21.2/update.html) or [`UPSERT`](../v21.2/upsert.html) statement modifies a different column value in the same row, or when an `ON UPDATE CASCADE` expression on a different column modifies an existing value in the same row.
Core       | **More granular controls for session variables** | There are now more ways to control CockroachDB's behavior through [session variables](../v21.2/set-vars.html). You can now set user or role-level defaults by using the [`ALTER ROLE`](../v21.2/alter-role.html) statement. CockroachDB also now supports setting session variables for the duration of a single transaction, using [the `LOCAL` keyword](../v21.2/set-vars.html#set-local).
Core       | **Transaction guardrails**     | [Transaction guardrails](../v21.2/transactions.html#limit-the-number-of-rows-written-or-read-in-a-transaction) have been added to CockroachDB to improve production stability. These can help prevent cluster unavailability and protect the cluster against multiple developer workloads with problematic SQL statements.
Core       | **Expression indexes**         | [Indexes on expressions](../v21.2/expression-indexes.html) can now be created. These indexes speed up queries that filter on the result of that expression, and are especially useful for indexing only a specific field of a `JSON` object.
Core       | **Correlated CTEs**            | [Correlated common table expressions](../v21.2/common-table-expressions.html#correlated-common-table-expressions) (CTEs) are now supported in CockroachDB. A correlated CTE is a common table expression that is contained in a subquery and references columns defined outside of the subquery.
Core       | **Admission control**          | A new [admission control system](../v21.2/architecture/admission-control.html) has been added. CockroachDB implements this optional admission control system to maintain cluster performance and availability when some nodes experience high load. Admission control is disabled by default.<br><br>Additionally, an [**Overload** dashboard](../v21.2/ui-overload-dashboard.html) has been added to the DB Console. Use this dashboard to monitor the performance of the parts of your cluster relevant to the cluster's [admission control system](../v21.2/architecture/admission-control.html). This includes CPU usage, the runnable goroutines waiting per CPU, the health of the persistent stores, and the performance of admission control system when it is enabled.
Core       | **Persistent statement and transaction statistics** | Statistics information on the [**Statements**](../v21.2/ui-statements-page.html) and [**Transactions**](../v21.2/ui-transactions-page.html) pages within the DB Console can now be persisted for longer than one hour.
Core       | **Index usage statistics**     | Index usage statistics are now supported for CockroachDB to help [identify unused indexes](../v21.2/performance-recipes.html#slow-writes) causing unnecessary performance overhead for your workload. Index read statistics are available in the [`crdb_internal` schema](../v21.2/crdb-internal.html#tables) for programmatic access using SQL.
Core       | **Third-party tool support**   | [Sequelize](../v21.2/build-a-nodejs-app-with-cockroachdb-sequelize.html), a Javascript object-relational mapper (ORM), and [Alembic](../v21.2/alembic.html), a schema migration tool for SQLAlchemy users, are now fully supported. We have also improved testing for [PgBouncer](https://dzone.com/articles/using-pgbouncer-with-cockroachdb), an external connection pooler for PostgreSQL.
Core       | **Contention views**           | You can now use pre-built contention views in [`crdb_internal`](../v21.2/crdb-internal.html#tables) to quickly identify the top contending indexes. These views can be used to [understand where and avoid contention](../v21.2/performance-best-practices-overview.html#understanding-and-avoiding-transaction-contention) happening in your workload.

<h4 id="v21-2-0-recovery-and-i-o">Recovery and I/O</h4>

Version    | Feature                                       | Description
-----------+-----------------------------------------------+------------
{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} | **`BACKUP` / `RESTORE` scalability**          | [`BACKUP`](../v21.2/backup.html) and [`RESTORE`](../v21.2/restore.html) performance has been improved for larger data volumes, more frequent backups, and clusters with more or larger nodes.
{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} | **Webhook changefeed sink** | You can now stream individual [changefeed](../v21.2/create-changefeed.html) messages as webhook messages to a newly supported [`webhook-https` sink](../v21.2/changefeed-sinks.html#webhook-sink). The webhook sink is a flexible, general-purpose sink solution that does not require managing a Kafka cluster or cloud storage sink.
{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} | **Multi-region bulk operations improvements** | The following bulk operations are now supported: <ul><li>[`RESTORE`](../v21.2/restore.html) on [`REGIONAL BY TABLE`](../v21.2/multiregion-overview.html#regional-tables) and [`GLOBAL`](../v21.2/set-locality.html#global) tables is supported with some limitations. For more details, see [Restoring to multi-region databases](../v21.2/restore.html#restoring-to-multi-region-databases).</li><li>[`IMPORT INTO`](../v21.2/import-into.html) now supports importing into [`REGIONAL BY ROW`](../v21.2/set-locality.html#regional-by-row) tables.</li></ul>
{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} | **Changefeeds for regional by row tables**    | [Changefeeds](../v21.2/create-changefeed.html) are now supported on [regional by row tables](../v21.2/multiregion-overview.html#regional-by-row-tables).
{{ site.data.products.enterprise }} | **Changefeed observability**                  | You can now display specific fields related to changefeed jobs by running [`SHOW CHANGEFEED JOBS`](../v21.2/show-jobs.html#show-changefeed-jobs).

<h4 id="v21-2-0-database-operations">Database operations</h4>

Version    | Feature                                | Description
-----------+----------------------------------------+------------
Enterprise | **Kubernetes Operator on Amazon EKS**  | The Kubernetes Operator is now supported on [Amazon EKS (Elastic Kubernetes Service)](../v21.2/deploy-cockroachdb-with-kubernetes.html#hosted-eks).
Enterprise | **Extend the Kubernetes Operator API** | The [Kubernetes Operator API has been extended](../v21.2/schedule-cockroachdb-kubernetes.html) to a state where it can support the various types of single-region deployments the Helm chart currently supports. This includes: <ul><li>Node affinity</li><li>Pod affinity and anti-affinity</li><li>Taints and tolerations</li><li>Custom labels and annotations</li><ul>
Enterprise | <a name="v21-2-0-multi-region-db-console">**Multi-region in the DB Console** | The DB Console now surfaces multi-region information to provide observability into global databases and their workloads. You can view multi-region details on the [**Databases**](../v21.2/ui-databases-page.html), [**Statements**](../v21.2/ui-statements-page.html), and [**Transactions**](../v21.2/ui-transactions-page.html) pages.
Core       | **Automatic ballast files**            | CockroachDB now automatically creates an emergency ballast file at startup time.  The `cockroach debug ballast` command is still available but deprecated. For more information about how automatic ballast file creation works, see [automatic ballast files](../v21.2/cluster-setup-troubleshooting.html#automatic-ballast-files).

<h4 id="v21-2-0-backward-incompatible-changes">Backward-incompatible changes</h4>

Before [upgrading to CockroachDB v21.2](../v21.2/upgrade-cockroach-version.html), be sure to review the following backward-incompatible changes and adjust your deployment as necessary.

- Interleaved tables and interleaved indexes have been removed. Before upgrading to v21.2, [convert interleaved tables](../v21.1/interleave-in-parent.html#convert-interleaved-tables) and [replace interleaved indexes](../v21.1/interleave-in-parent.html#replace-interleaved-indexes). Clusters with interleaved tables and indexes cannot finalize the v21.2 upgrade.
- Previously, CockroachDB only supported the YMD format for parsing timestamps from strings. It now also supports the MDY format to better align with PostgreSQL. A timestamp such as `1-1-18`, which was previously interpreted as `2001-01-18`, will now be interpreted as `2018-01-01`. To continue interpreting the timestamp in the YMD format, the first number can be represented with 4 digits, `2001-1-18`.
- The deprecated [cluster setting](../v21.2/cluster-settings.html) `cloudstorage.gs.default.key` has been removed, and the behavior of the `AUTH` parameter in Google Cloud Storage [`BACKUP`](../v21.2/backup.html) and `IMPORT` URIs has been changed. The default behavior is now that of `AUTH=specified`, which uses the credentials passed in the `CREDENTIALS` parameter, and the previous default behavior of using the node's implicit access (via its machine account or role) now requires explicitly passing `AUTH=implicit`.
- Switched types from `TEXT` to `"char"` for compatibility with PostgreSQL in the following columns: `pg_constraint` (`confdeltype`, `confmatchtype`, `confudptype`, `contype`) `pg_operator` (`oprkind`), `pg_prog` (`proargmodes`), `pg_rewrite` (`ev_enabled`, `ev_type`), and `pg_trigger` (`tgenabled`).

<h4 id="v21-2-0-deprecations">Deprecations</h4>

- The `kv.closed_timestamp.closed_fraction` and `kv.follower_read.target_multiple` [settings](../v21.2/cluster-settings.html) are now deprecated and turned into no-ops. They had already stopped controlling the closing of timestamps in v21.1, but were still influencing the [`follower_read_timestamp()`](../v21.2/functions-and-operators.html) computation for a timestamp that is likely to be closed on all followers. To replace them, a simpler `kv.closed_timestamp.propagation_slack` setting is introduced, modeling the delay between when a leaseholder closes a timestamp and when all the followers become aware of it (defaults conservatively to 1s). `follower_read_timestamp()` is now computed as `kv.closed_timestamp.target_duration` + `kv.closed_timestamp.side_transport_interval` + `kv.closed_timestamp.propagation_slack`, which defaults to 4.2s (instead of the previous default of 4.8s).
- Because the [`SELECT`](../v21.2/security-reference/authorization.html#privileges) database privilege is being deprecated, CockroachDB now additionally checks for the [`CONNECT`](../v21.2/security-reference/authorization.html#privileges) privilege on the database to allow for backing up the database. Existing users with `SELECT` on the database can still back up the database, but it is now recommended to [`GRANT`](../v21.2/grant.html) `CONNECT` on the database.
- [`IMPORT TABLE`](../v21.2/import.html) will be deprecated in v21.2 and removed in a future release. Users should create a table using [`CREATE TABLE`](../v21.2/create-table.html) and then [`IMPORT INTO`](../v21.2/import-into.html) the newly created table.
- Granting `SELECT`, `UPDATE`, `INSERT`, and `DELETE` on databases is being deprecated. The syntax is still supported, but is automatically converted to the equivalent `ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGES FOR ALL ROLES` command. The user is given a notice that the privilege is incompatible and automatically being converted to an `ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGE FOR ALL ROLES` command.

<h4 id="v21-2-0-known-limitations">Known limitations</h4>

For information about new and unresolved limitations in CockroachDB v21.2, with suggested workarounds where applicable, see [Known Limitations](../v21.2/known-limitations.html).

<h4 id="v21-2-0-education">Education</h4>

Area                 | Topic                     | Description
---------------------+---------------------------+------------
Cockroach University | **New Serverless course** | [Introduction to Serverless Databases and {{ site.data.products.serverless }}](https://university.cockroachlabs.com/courses/course-v1:crl+intro-to-serverless+self-paced/about) teaches you the core concepts behind serverless databases and gives you the tools you need to get started with {{ site.data.products.serverless }}.
Cockroach University | **New Schema Design Course** | [Foundations of Schema Design in CockroachDB](https://university.cockroachlabs.com/courses/course-v1:crl+foundations-schema-design-cockroachdb+self-paced/about) teaches you CockroachDB's rich data types and the best practices and anti-patterns to consider when designing schema for CockroachDB.
Cockroach University | **New Node.js Course** | [Fundamentals of CockroachDB for Node.js Developers](https://university.cockroachlabs.com/courses/course-v1:crl+fundamentals-of-crdb-for-nodejs-devs+self-paced/about) walks you through building a full-stack vehicle-sharing app in Typescript using Node.js with TypeORM and a <a href="https://cockroachlabs.cloud/signup?referralId=docs_crdb_release_notes" rel="noopener" target="_blank">CockroachCloud Free</a> cluster as the backend.
Docs                 | **CockroachDB Cloud Guidance** | Added Node.js, Go, Python, and Java sample app code and connection guidance to the [{{ site.data.products.serverless }} Quickstart](../cockroachcloud/quickstart.html), as well as docs explaining the [{{ site.data.products.serverless }} Architecture](../cockroachcloud/architecture.html), important concepts for [planning/managing a Serverless cluster](../cockroachcloud/plan-your-cluster.html) (e.g., request units, cluster scaling), and how to run [bulk operations on {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} and Serverless clusters](../cockroachcloud/run-bulk-operations.html).
Docs                 | **Multi-Region Guidance** | Added docs on [transitioning to the new multi-region SQL abstractions](../v21.2/migrate-to-multiregion-sql.html) from the legacy zone-configuration-based workflows, and on [data domiciling in multi-region clusters](../v21.2/data-domiciling.html).
Docs                 | **Performance Tuning Recipes** | Added [solutions for common performance issues](../v21.2/performance-recipes.html).
Docs                 | **New Developer Tutorials** | Added tutorials on [using Google Cloud Run](../v21.2/deploy-app-gcr.html) to deploy a containerized Django application and [using the Alembic schema migration module](../v21.2/alembic.html) with a simple Python application.
Docs                 | **Changefeed Tuning Guidance** | Added guidance on [tuning changefeeds](../v21.2/advanced-changefeed-configuration.html) for high-durability delivery, high throughput, and Kafka sinks.
Docs                 | **Sample App Specifications** | Added a [`README`](https://github.com/cockroachdb/docs/blob/master/SAMPLE_APP_SPEC.md) with specifications for future sample apps built by external partners or contributors.
Docs                 | **Disk Stall Troubleshooting** | Added docs explaining the [symptoms, causes, and mitigations for disk stalls](../v21.2/cluster-setup-troubleshooting.html#disk-stalls).
Docs                 | **Network Logging with Fluentd** | Added an example configuration for [network logging with Fluentd](../v21.2/logging-use-cases.html#network-logging).
