## v21.2.11

Release Date: May 23, 2022

{% include releases/release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v21-2-11-enterprise-edition-changes">Enterprise edition changes</h3>

- Fixed a bug where [backups](../v21.2/take-full-and-incremental-backups.html) in the base directory of a Google Storage bucket would not be discovered by `SHOW BACKUPS`. These backups will now appear correctly. [#80510][#80510]

<h3 id="v21-2-11-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- When using Azure Cloud Storage for data operations, CockroachDB now calculates the Storage Account URL from the provided `AZURE_ENVIRONMENT` query parameter. This defaults to `AzurePublicCloud` if not specified to maintain backwards compatibility. This parameter should not be used when the cluster is in a mixed version or upgrading state, as nodes that have not been upgraded will continue to send requests to the `AzurePublicCloud` even in the presence of this parameter. [#80800][#80800]
- Added a new [session variable](../v21.2/set-vars.html#supported-variables), `enable_multiple_modifications_of_table`, which can be used instead of the cluster variable `sql.multiple_modifications_of_table.enabled` to allow statements containing multiple [`INSERT ON CONFLICT`](../v21.2/insert.html#on-conflict-clause), [`UPSERT`](../v21.2/upsert.html), [`UPDATE`](../v21.2/update.html), or [`DELETE`](../v21.2/delete.html) subqueries to modify the same table. The underlying issue [#70731](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/issues/70731) is not fixed. As with `sql.multiple_modifications_of_table.enabled`, with this session variable enabled there is nothing to prevent the table corruption seen in issue #70731 from occurring if the same row is modified multiple times by different subqueries of a single statement. Cockroach Labs recommends rewriting these statements, but the session variable is provided as an aid if this is not possible. [#81016][#81016]

<h3 id="v21-2-11-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- Added an alert banner on the [Overview](../v21.2/ui-overview.html) list page for staggered node versions. [#80742][#80742]

<h3 id="v21-2-11-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a rare crash which can occur when [restarting a node](../v21.2/cockroach-start.html) after [dropping tables](../v21.2/drop-table.html). [#80571][#80571]
- Fixed a bug where in very rare circumstances CockroachDB could incorrectly evaluate queries with [`ORDER BY`](../v21.2/order-by.html) clauses when the prefix of ordering was already provided by the index ordering of the scanned table. [#80731][#80731]
- The list of recently decommissioned nodes and the historical list of decommissioned nodes now correctly displays decommissioned nodes. [#80747][#80747]
- Fixed a goroutine leak when internal [rangefeed](../v21.2/use-changefeeds.html#enable-rangefeeds) clients received certain kinds of retryable errors. [#80797][#80797]
- Fixed a bug in which some prepared statements could result in incorrect results when executed. This could occur when the prepared statement included an equality comparison between an [index column](../v21.2/schema-design-indexes.html) and a placeholder, and the placeholder was cast to a [type](../v21.2/data-types.html) that was different from the column type. For example, if column a was of type [`DECIMAL`](../v21.2/decimal.html), the following prepared query could produce incorrect results when executed: `SELECT * FROM t_dec WHERE a = $1::INT8;` [#81364][#81364]

<h3 id="v21-2-11-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 22 merged PRs by 20 authors.
We would like to thank the following contributors from the CockroachDB community:

- Nathan Lowe (first-time contributor)

[#80510]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80510
[#80571]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80571
[#80731]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80731
[#80742]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80742
[#80747]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80747
[#80797]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80797
[#80800]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/80800
[#81016]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/81016
[#81364]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/81364
