## v21.2.0-beta.3

Release Date: October 4, 2021

{% include releases/release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v21-2-0-beta-3-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- [`SHOW JOBS`](../v21.2/show-jobs.html) will now include the newly added columns from `crdb_internal.jobs` (`last_run`, `next_run`, `num_runs`, and `execution_errors`). The columns capture state related to retries, failures, and exponential backoff. [#70791][#70791]

<h3 id="v21-2-0-beta-3-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- On the [Statement Details page](../v21.2/ui-statements-page.html#statement-details-page), CockroachDB now shows info not yet sampled as unavailable, instead of with a value of `0`. [#70569][#70569]
- On the [`EXPLAIN`](../v21.2/explain.html) plan tab in the [Statement Details page](../v21.2/ui-statements-page.html#statement-details-page), users can now hover over underlined `EXPLAIN` plan attributes to get tooltips with more information on the attribute. [#70631][#70631]
- Persisted statements are now enabled for tenants. In the [Statements](../v21.2/ui-statements-page.html) and [Transactions](../v21.2/ui-transactions-page.html) pages, users now view the aggregated statistics for statements and transactions over a date range. A date range selector is present in both pages in order to select the range of persisted stats to view. Note that the two pages share a single date range. [#70777][#70777]
- Removed last cleared status from the [Statements](../v21.2/ui-statements-page.html), [Transactions](../v21.2/ui-transactions-page.html), and [Transaction Details](../v21.2/ui-transactions-page.html#transaction-details-page) pages and updated the tooltip on clear SQL stats to indicate it will also clear the persisted data. [#70777][#70777]
- For URLs on the [Statement Details page](../v21.2/ui-statements-page.html#statement-details-page), the app name and database name are now query string parameters. The route to statement details is now definitively `/statement/:implicitTxn/:statement?{queryStringParams}`, e.g., `statement/true/SELECT%20city%2C%20id%20FROM%20vehicles%20WHERE%20city%20%3D%20%241?database=movr&app=movr` [#70804][#70804]

<h3 id="v21-2-0-beta-3-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a problem where the [TPC-C workload](../v21.2/performance-benchmarking-with-tpcc-small.html), when used in a [multi-region setup](../v21.2/multiregion-overview.html), did not properly assign workers to the local partitions. [#70613][#70613]
- Fixed styling issues in the tooltip text on the [Statements](../v21.2/ui-statements-page.html) and [Transactions](../v21.2/ui-transactions-page.html) pages' table columns. [#70650][#70650]
- Fixed a bug where [`EXPLAIN (VEC)`](../v21.2/explain.html#vec-option) on some queries could lead to a crash. The bug was present only in v21.2 [testing releases](index.html#testing-releases). [#70524][#70524]
- The [Statements](../v21.2/ui-statements-page.html) and [Transactions](../v21.2/ui-transactions-page.html) pages are now able to display and reset persisted SQL stats. [#70777][#70777]
- Fixed a bug where the exit status of the [`cockroach` command](../v21.2/cockroach-commands.html) did not follow the previously-documented table of exit status codes when an error occurred during the command startup. Only errors occurring after startup were reported using the correct code. This bug had existed ever since reference exit status codes were introduced. [#70676][#70676]

<h3 id="v21-2-0-beta-3-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 26 merged PRs by 18 authors.

[#70524]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70524
[#70569]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70569
[#70613]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70613
[#70631]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70631
[#70650]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70650
[#70676]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70676
[#70777]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70777
[#70791]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70791
[#70804]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/70804
