## v21.1.0-alpha.1

Release Date: December 8, 2020

{% include releases/release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v21-1-0-alpha-1-backward-incompatible-changes">Backward-incompatible changes</h3>

- RocksDB can no longer be used as the storage engine. Passing in `--storage-engine=rocksdb` now returns an error. [#55509][#55509] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Rows containing empty arrays in [`ARRAY`](../v21.1/array.html) columns are now contained in [GIN indexes](../v21.1/inverted-indexes.html). This change is backward-incompatible because prior versions of CockroachDB will not be able to recognize and decode keys for empty arrays. Note that rows containing `NULL` values in an indexed column will still not be included in GIN indexes. [#55970][#55970] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Concatenation between a non-null argument and a null argument is now typed as string concatenation, whereas it was previously typed as array concatenation. This means that the result of `NULL || 1` will now be `NULL` instead of `{1}`. To preserve the old behavior, the null argument can be casted to an explicit type. [#55611][#55611] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}

<h3 id="v21-1-0-alpha-1-general-changes">General changes</h3>

- Added increased logging and metrics around slow disk operations. [#54215][#54215] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- CockroachDB now detects stalled disk operations better and crashes the process if a disk operation is taking longer than a minute. Added cluster settings to allow for tuning of this behavior. [#55186][#55186] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Added some metrics surrounding schema changes. [#54855][#54855] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Upgraded CockroachDB's version of Go to v1.15.4. [#56363][#56363] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- The timezone data is now built in to the CockroachDB binary, which is the fallback source of time if `tzdata` is not located by the default Go standard library. [#56634][#56634] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Renamed instances of "Admin UI" to "DB Console" in the documentation of OIDC cluster settings. [#56869][#56869]
- Included `tar` in docker images. This allows users to use `kubectl cp` on 20.2.x containers. [#57241][#57241]

<h3 id="v21-1-0-alpha-1-enterprise-edition-changes">Enterprise edition changes</h3>

- It is no longer allowed to widen an incremental-backup chain with the inclusion of new complete empty DBs. [#54329][#54329] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Added cluster settings to enable/ disable the `BACKUP` and `RESTORE` commands. Attempts to use these features while they are disabled returns an error indicating that the database administrator has disabled the feature. Example usage: `SET CLUSTER SETTING feature.backup.enabled = FALSE; SET CLUSTER SETTING feature.backup.enabled = TRUE; SET CLUSTER SETTING feature.restore.enabled = FALSE; SET CLUSTER SETTING feature.restore.enabled = TRUE;`. [#56533][#56533] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Added cluster settings to enable/ disable the `IMPORT`, `EXPORT`, and changefeed  commands. Attempts to use these features while they are disabled returns an error indicating that the database administrator has disabled the feature. Example usage: `SET CLUSTER SETTING feature.import.enabled = FALSE; SET CLUSTER SETTING feature.import.enabled = TRUE; SET CLUSTER SETTING feature.export.enabled = FALSE; SET CLUSTER SETTING feature.export.enabled = TRUE; SET CLUSTER SETTING feature.changefeed.enabled = FALSE; SET CLUSTER SETTING feature.changefeed.enabled = TRUE;`. [#56872][#56872] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}

<h3 id="v21-1-0-alpha-1-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- Interleaved joins have been removed; merge joins are now planned in all cases when interleaved joins would have been planned previously. [#54163][#54163] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- It is now possible to create partial GIN indexes. The optimizer will choose to scan partial GIN indexes when the partial index predicate is implied and scanning the GIN index has the lowest estimated cost. [#54376][#54376] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- `EXPLAIN ANALYZE` diagrams now contain "bytes sent" information on streams. [#54518][#54518] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Implemented the geometry built-in functions `ST_Rotate({geometry, float8, geometry})`. [#54610][#54610]
- Implemented the geometry built-in function `ST_ClosestPoint()`. [#54843][#54843]
- Implement the string built-in function `unaccent()`. [#54628][#54628]
- When enterprise features are not enabled, the `follower_read_timestamp()` function now returns `(statement_time - 4.8s)` instead of an error. [#54951][#54951] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Added a new virtual table `crdb_internal.invalid_descriptors`, which runs validations on descriptors in the database context and reports any errors. [#54017][#54017]
- Implemented the built-in operator `add jsonb_exists_any(jsonb, text[])`. [#55172][#55172]
- Added the ability to optionally specify the `PRIVILEGES` keyword when issuing the `GRANT ALL` or `REVOKE ALL` statements, for Postgres compatibility. Previously, a statement like the following would fail with a syntax error: `GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE a TO user1;`. [#55304][#55304] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Implemented the built-in function `pg_column_size()`, which counts the amount of bytes stored by column. [#55312][#55312]
- Implemented the geometry built-in functions `ST_Rotate({geometry, float8, float8, float8})`. [#55428][#55428]
- Implemented the built-in function `ST_MemSize()`, which returns the memory space a geometry takes. [#55416][#55416]
- `SHOW ENUMS` now returns an array aggregation of enum values instead of having them separated by the `|` character. [#55386][#55386]
- Implemented the geometry built-in function `ST_PointInsideCircle()`. [#55464][#55464]
- Implement the geometry built-in function `ST_LineFromEncodedPolyline()`. [#55429][#55429]
- Implement the geometry built-in function `ST_AsEncodedPolyline()`. [#55515][#55515]
- Implement the geometry built-in function `ST_LineLocatePoint()`, which computes the fraction of the line segment that represents the location of the given point to the closest point on the original line. [#55470][#55470]
- Implemented the `REASSIGN OWNED BY ... TO ...` statement, which changes ownership of all database objects in the current database, owned by any roles in the first argument, to the new role in the second argument. [#54594][#54594]
- Implemented the geometry built-in function `ST_MinimumBoundingRadius()`, which returns a record containing the center point and radius of the smallest circle that can fully contain a geometry. [#55532][#55532]
- The vectorized engine now supports the JSONFetchValPath (`#>`) operator. [#55570][#55570]
- Added the ability to cast a string containing all integers into a given regtype, e.g., `'1234'::regproc`. [#55607][#55607]
- Potentially hazardous `DROP COLUMN` operations when `sql_safe_updates` is enabled now return a note and link to https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/issues/46541. [#55248][#55248] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Changed the `SPLIT AT` output to be consistent with the output from `SHOW RANGES`. [#55543][#55543] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Implemented the geometry built-in function `ST_MinimumBoundingCircle()`, which returns polygon shape that approximates minimum bounding circle to contain geometry. [#55567][#55567]
- Added the constraint name to constraint errors, for increased wire-level Postgres compatibility. [#55660][#55660] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Added support for using the syntax `... UNIQUE WITHOUT INDEX ...` in `CREATE TABLE` and `ALTER TABLE` statements, both when defining columns and unique constraints. Although this syntax can now be parsed successfully, using this syntax currently returns an error: `unique constraints without an index are not yet supported`. [#55700][#55700] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Add the built-in functions `sha224()` and `sha384()`. [#55720][#55720]
- Implemented `SHOW REGIONS`, which returns all of regions available in a cluster. [#55831][#55831] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Implemented the geography built-in function `ST_UnaryUnion()` [#55894][#55894]
- Implemented `ALTER TABLE ... SET LOCALITY/REGIONAL AFFINITY` statements, which configure multi-region properties of given tables. These are subject to change. [#55827][#55827] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- All expressions in `EXPLAIN` output that operate on indexes now show the table name the index is declared on, rather than just an alias. If the query aliases the table, the alias is also shown. For example, a scan on table `foo` that is aliased as `f` was previously displayed as `scan f`. It is now displayed as `scan foo [as=f]`. [#55641][#55641] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Changed the underlying type for the version cluster setting. Previously, it was of an internal type representing "state machine", but now it's simply "version". This has no operational implications, but the `Type` column in `cockroach gen settings-list` now shows "version" instead of "custom validation". [#55994][#55994],[#56546][#56546] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Removed the `201auto` value for the `vectorize` session variable and the corresponding cluster setting. [#55907][#55907] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Expanded the `CREATE SCHEMA`, `DROP SCHEMA`, `ALTER SCHEMA`, `GRANT ... ON SCHEMA`, `REVOKE ... ON SCHEMA`, and `SHOW GRANTS ON SCHEMA` statements to allow schema names prefixed with database names. [#55647][#55647] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Added support for dollar-quoted strings with digit. [#55958][#55958] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Added a new single-column output format for `EXPLAIN` and `EXPLAIN (VERBOSE)`. [#55866][#55866] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Creating multi-column GIN indexes is now allowed by setting the `experimental_enable_mutlti_column_inverted_indexes` session setting to `true`. At this time, these indexes are not fully supported and their behavior is undefined. Using this feature will likely result in errors. Do not enable this setting in a production database. [#55993][#55993] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Constraints that have not been validated are now marked "NOT VALID" in the output of `SHOW CREATE` and `SHOW CONSTRAINTS`. [#53485][#53485] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- The `NOT VALID` option can now be provided for `CHECK` and `FOREIGN KEY` constraints listed as table constraints in `CREATE TABLE` statements. This option has no affect on the constraint created. It will not skip validation. [#53485][#53485] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Added a pgcode (`42704`, `undefined_object`) to the error returned when attempting to drop an index by a table and index name that doesn't exist. [#55417][#55417]
- Added the `WITH row_limit="{$num}"` option for importing CSVs to allow users to do a quick test run on an import of `$num` rows. Example: `IMPORT TABLE test ... CSV DATA ... WITH row_limit="3";` [#56080][#56080] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Added the `WITH row_limit="{$num}"` option for importing `DELIMITED/AVRO` data to allow users to do a quick test run on an import of $num rows. Example: `IMPORT TABLE test ... DELIMITED/AVRO DATA ... WITH row_limit="3";` [#56135][#56135] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Added `WITH row_limit="{$num}"` option for importing bundle formats to allow users to do a quick test run on an import of $num rows. Example: `IMPORT ... WITH row_limit="3";`. [#56587][#56587] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- `EXPLAIN ANALYZE` diagrams now contain "network latency" information on streams. [#55705][#55705] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Implemented the `covar_pop()` and `covar_samp()` aggregation functions. [#55707][#55707]
- Prevented column type modification of columns that are depended on by views. [#56213][#56213]
- Implemented the geometry built-in functions `ST_TransScale({geometry,float8,float8,float8,float8})` [#56198][#56198]
- Implemented the geometry built-in function `ST_Node()`. [#56183][#56183]
- The concatenation operator `||` can now be used between strings and any other non-array types. [#55611][#55611]
- CockroachDB now returns a float instead of a decimal when at least one argument of an aggregate function is decimal. [#56296][#56296]
- Implemented the `regr_intercept()`, `regr_r2()`, and `regr_slope()` aggregation functions. [#56296][#56296]
- `EXPLAIN ANALYZE` diagrams now show "deserialization time" on streams instead of "io time". [#56144][#56144]
- Added a pgcode (`42804`, `DatatypeMismatch`) when adding a default value of the wrong type to a column. [#56455][#56455]
- Attempting to rename an undefined index now returns a `pgcode.UndefinedObject` (`42704`) error instead of an uncategorized error. [#56455][#56455]
- Implemented the `regr_sxx()`, `regr_sxy()`, and `regr_syy()` aggregation functions. [#56585][#56585]
- `SHOW REGIONS` has changed the column name for availability zones to "zones" from "availability_zones". [#56344][#56344] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Introduced a `pg_collation` of "default". Strings now return the "default" collation OID in the `pg_attribute` table (this was previously `en_US`). The "default" collation is also visible on the `pg_collation` virtual table. [#56598][#56598]
- A table can now successfully be dropped in a transaction following other schema changes to the table in the same transaction. [#56589][#56589] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Added a new variant of explain: `EXPLAIN ANALYZE (PLAN)`. [#56524][#56524] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- `SHOW REGIONS` functionality is now deferred to `SHOW REGIONS FROM CLUSTER`. [#56627][#56627] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- It is now possible to hint to the optimizer that it should plan an inverted join by using the syntax `... INNER INVERTED JOIN ...` or `... LEFT INVERTED JOIN ...`. If the hint is provided and it is possible to plan an inverted join, the optimizer will now plan an inverted join, even if it estimates that a different plan would have a lower cost. If the hint is provided but it is not possible to plan an inverted join because there is no GIN index on the right side table or the join condition is not a valid inverted join condition, the database will return an error. [#55679][#55679] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Added the empty `pg_catalog.pg_opclass` table to improve compatibility with Postgres. [#56653][#56653]
- `SURVIVE AVAILABILITY ZONE FAILURE` is now `SURVIVE ZONE FAILURE`. [#56837][#56837] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Added admin-only, `crdb_internal` functions to enable descriptor repair in dire circumstances. [#55699][#55699]
- Added support for an optional `=` character for `SURVIVE`, e.g., `ALTER DATABASE d SURVIVE = ZONE FAILURE`. [#56881][#56881] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Introduced stubs for `ALTER DATABASE ... PRIMARY REGION` and `CREATE TABLE ... PRIMARY REGION`. [#56883][#56883] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Dropping the primary index using `DROP INDEX` now returns a `FeatureNotSupported` error along with hints showing supported ways to drop primary indexes. [#56858][#56858]
- Renaming an index to a name that is already being used for another index will now return a `pgcode.DuplicateRelation` (`42P07`) error instead of an uncategorized error. [#56681][#56681]
- The `relpersistence` column in `pg_catalog.pg_class` now correctly displays `t` as the persistence status for temporary tables. [#56827][#56827]
- Added a deprecation notice to statements containing the `INTERLEAVE IN PARENT` clause. [#56874][#56874]
- `SHOW DATABASES` and `crdb_internal.databases` now display all regions as well as survival goals for a given database. [#56880][#56880] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Adds a feature flag via cluster settings for the `CREATE STATISTICS` and `ANALYZE` feature. If a user attempts to use the command while disabled, an error indicating that the database administrator had disabled the feature is surfaced. Example usage: `SET CLUSTER SETTING feature.stats.enabled = FALSE; SET CLUSTER SETITNG feature.stats.enabled = TRUE;`. [#57076][#57076] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- `CREATE DATABASE ... PRIMARY REGION` is now stored on the database descriptor. [#57038][#57038]
- `SHOW DATABASES` and `crdb_internal.databases` now display the `PRIMARY REGION` set on the database descriptor as the `primary_region` column. [#57038][#57038] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Added a feature flag via cluster settings for all schema change-related features. If a user attempts to use these features while they are disabled, an error indicating that the database administrator has disabled the feature is surfaced.  Example usage: `SET CLUSTER SETTING feature.schema_change.enabled = FALSE; SET CLUSTER SETTING feature.schema_change.enabled = TRUE;`. [#57040][#57040] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Changed `pg_constraint` column types for `confkey` and `conkey` to `smallint[]` to improve compatibility with Postgres. [#56975][#56975]
- The `ALTER TABLE...SPLIT/UNSPLIT` and `ALTER INDEX...SPLIT/UNSPLIT` commands are now gated by a schema change feature flag. If a user attempts to use these features while they are disabled, an error indicating that the system administrator has disabled the feature is surfaced. Example usage: `SET CLUSTER SETTING feature.schema_change.enabled = FALSE SET CLUSTER SETTING feature.schema_change.enabled = TRUE;`. [#57142][#57142] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- When creating a database with the regions clause specified, CockroachDB now creates a `regions` enum type automatically. [#56628][#56628] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Implemented `SHOW REGION FROM DATABASE` and `SHOW REGION FROM DATABASE db`, which shows all regions for the given database, as well as whether that region is the primary region. [#57106][#57106] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- `CREATE TABLE AS SELECT ... FROM ... AS OF SYSTEM TIME x` is now supported. [#55916][#55916]
- Implemented the function `regr_count()`. [#56822][#56822]
- Added the `character_sets` table to the `information_schema`. [#56953][#56953] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- `SHOW ENUMS` is now extended to take an optional `FROM` clause. The user can specify either the schema name or both the database name and schema name separated by `.`. If a hierarchy is specified, the statement returns enums falling in that hierarchy rather than all of the enums in the current database. [#57197][#57197] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- The multi-region enum, created implicitly for all multi-region databases, can be introspected using the `pg_catalog.pg_enum` table. It is also displayed in `SHOW ENUMS`. [#57197][#57197] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Implemented the geography built-in function `ST_Subdivide()`. [#56898][#56898]
- A `pgcode.UndefinedColumn` error is now returned when adding a unique constraint to one or more undefined columns. [#57316][#57316]
- The database name is now displayed in `SHOW REGIONS FROM DATABASE`. [#57278][#57278] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Added `SHOW SURVIVAL GOAL FROM DATABASE [database]`, which shows the survival goal for a multi-region database. [#57278][#57278] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Added the `uuid_generate_v4()` built-in function. It works exactly like `gen_random_uuid()` but was added for compatibility with Postgres versions older than PG13. [#57212][#57212]

<h3 id="v21-1-0-alpha-1-command-line-changes">Command-line changes</h3>

- A `debug.zip` file now includes a script, `hot-ranges.sh`, which will summarize the hottest ranges in the cluster. [#53547][#53547] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- `cockroach sql` and `cockroach demo` now support the command-line parameter `--file` (shorthand `-f`) to read commands from a named file. The behavior is the same as if the file was redirected on the standard input; in particular, the processing stops at the first error encountered (which is different from interactive usage with a prompt).  Note that it is not yet possible to combine `-f` with `-e`. [#54741][#54741] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- The large banner message "Replication has been disabled for this cluster ..." that was unconditionally emitted on the standard error stream for `cockroach start-single-node` has now become a simple log message at severity `INFO`. [#54749][#54749]
- `cockroach demo` now pre-creates a `demo` user account with a random password to discourage the user of `root`. The `demo` account is currently granted the `admin` role. [#54749][#54749] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- The CLI help text for `--max-disk-temp-storage` now properly reports the default value. [#54853][#54853]
- The help text displayed by `\?` in `cockroach sql` and `cockroach demo` now groups the recognized client-side commands into sections for easier reading. [#54796][#54796]
- The client-side command `\show` for the SQL shell is deprecated in favor of the new command `\p`. This prints the contents of the query buffer entered so far. [#54796][#54796] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- The new client-side command `\r` for the SQL shell erases the contents of the query buffer entered so far. This provides a convenient way to reset the input, for example, when the user gets themselves confused with string delimiters. [#54796][#54796] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- The SQL shell (`cockroach sql`, `cockroach demo`) now supports the client-side command `\echo`, like `psql`. This can be used, for example, to generate informational output when executing SQL scripts non-interactively. [#54796][#54796] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- The SQL shell (`cockroach sql`, `cockroach demo`) now support the `\i` and `\ir` client-side command which reads SQL file and evaluates its content in-place.  `\ir` differs from `\i` in that the file name is resolved relative to the location of the script containing the `\ir` command. This makes `\ir` likely more desirable in the general case. Instances of `\q` inside a file included via `\i`/`\ir` stop evaluation of the file and resume evaluation of the file that included it. This feature is compatible with the identically named `psql` commands. It is meant to help compose complex initialization scripts from a library of standard components.  For example, one could be defining each table and its initial contents in separate SQL files, and then use different super-files to include different tables depending on the desired final schema. [#54796][#54796] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Removed the `debug sstables` command, superseded by the `debug pebble lsm` command. [#54890][#54890]
- Added the `cockroach debug pebble db checkpoint` debug command to easily create a checkpoint without using rocksdb. [#55751][#55751] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Updated the `--storage-engine` help text to reflect RocksDB deletion. [#55509][#55509]
- Added support for `\connect DATABASE` and `\c DATABASE`. [#55934][#55934] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Added an import CLI command that allows users to upload and import local dump files into a running cockroach cluster. `PGDUMP` and `MYSQLDUMP` formats are currently supported. [#54896][#54896] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- `cockroach demo` now allows for nodes to be added using the `\demo` client-side command.  This works in both single node and multi-node configurations, for example, when started with `--nodes int` or `--geo-partitioned-replicas`. [#56344][#56344] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Some specific situations now have dedicated exit status codes. The following codes are defined:

    Code | Description
    -----|------------
    0 | Process terminated without error.
    1 | An unspecified error was encountered. Explanation should be present in the stderr or logging output.
    2 | Go runtime error, or uncaught panic. Likely a bug in CockroachDB. Explanation may be present in logging output.
    3 | Server process interrupted gracefully with Ctrl+C / SIGINT.
    4 | Command-line flag error.
    5 | A logging operation to the process' stderr stream failed (e.g., stderr has been closed). Some details may be present in the file output, if enabled.
    6 | A logging operation to file has failed (e.g., log disk full, no inodes, permission issue, etc.). Some details may be present in the stderr stream.
    7 | Server detected an internal error and triggered an emergency shutdown.
    8 | Logging failed while processing an emergency shutdown.
    [#56574][#56574]
- `cockroach demo` now tries to use the same TCP port numbers for the SQL and HTTP servers on every invocation. This is meant to simplify documentation. These defaults can be overridden with the new (`demo`-specific) command line flags `--sql-port` and/or `--http-port`. [#56737][#56737] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- The SQL shell now accepts `yes`/`no` as boolean options for slash commands, following `psql` behavior. [#56829][#56829] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- A `\x [on|off]` command has been added to toggle the `records` display format, following `psql` behavior. [#56829][#56829] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- CockroachDB now prints a warning if the `--locality` flag does not contain a "region" tier. [#57179][#57179] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}

<h3 id="v21-1-0-alpha-1-api-endpoint-changes">API endpoint changes</h3>

- Added a new prometheus metric called `seconds_until_license_expiry` that reports the number of seconds until the enterprise license on the cluster expires, a negative number if the expiration is in the past, or `0` if there is no license. [#55565][#55565] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}

<h3 id="v21-1-0-alpha-1-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- Changed the view for tables without data on main pages. [#54943][#54943]
- Updated the design of the custom date range selector on the Cluster > Maps view and Metrics pages [#54851][#54851]
- The DB Console now shows messages provided by server instead of custom generic messages defined on the client side, for example, messages about permission restrictions to show pages for non-admin roles. [#50869][#50869]
- Added a new metric called `raft.scheduler.latency`, which monitors the latency for operations to be picked up and processed by the Raft scheduler. [#56943][#56943]
- Redesigned inline error alerts when a user has insufficient rights to see some resources. [#50869][#50869]
- Implemented a permission denied error for non-admin users on the Node Map and Events views. [#50869][#50869]
- Tables within user-defined schemas are now included in the Data Distribution page. [#56388][#56388] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Creating, dropping, and altering roles or users now causes events to be logged and displayed. [#55945][#55945]
- If statement diagnostics are enabled for a statement, the bytes sent over the network are now shown. [#55969][#55969]
- `ALTER DATABASE OWNER` and `CONVERT TO SCHEMA` now cause events to be logged and displayed. [#55891][#55891]
- Changing schema objects now causes events to be logged and displayed. [#55785][#55785]
- Changing privileges (i.e., with `GRANT` or `REVOKE`) now causes events to be logged and displayed. [#55612][#55612]
- Renaming databases or tables now causes events to be logged and displayed. [#55269][#55269]
- Added descriptions for failed job on the Job Details page. [#54268][#54268] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}

<h3 id="v21-1-0-alpha-1-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed the `rpath` and `so` names of `libgeos.so` and `libgeos_c.so` such that a `dlopen` to `libgeos.so` is not needed. [#55129][#55129]
- Made lease transfers during rebalancing adhere to the rate limit utilized in other lease transfer cases which eliminates unexpected lease oscillations when adding a new node. [#54322][#54322]
- CockroachDB now handles PostgreSQL "cancel" messages on TLS connections in the same way as when they are sent without TLS: the connection is closed, but no action takes place. No error is logged. As a reminder, PostgreSQL "cancel" messages are still unsupported in CockroachDB and client should still use `CANCEL QUERY` instead. [#54618][#54618]
- Cleared table statistics from job description in failed and canceled backup jobs. [#54446][#54446]
- Fixed an error message that referred to `experimental_enable_hash_sharded_indexes` as a cluster setting when it is in fact a session variable. [#54960][#54960]
- Fixed a nil pointer error that could occur at planning time for some spatial queries when a GIN index existed on a geometry or geography column. [#55076][#55076]
- Fixed `SHOW ENUMS` column names to have `values` instead of `string_agg` for column names, and `owner` for the owner itself. [#55139][#55139]
- Fixed `SHOW TYPES` to show the `owner` column instead of the `value` column. [#55139][#55139]
- Fixed a bug where empty enums did not show up for `SHOW ENUMS` or `SHOW TYPES`. [#55143][#55143]
- Fixed a bug where, on failure of `CREATE TABLE AS` or `CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW`, tables would be left in an invalid non-public state until GC instead of being marked as dropped, possibly causing spurious validation failures. The bug was introduced in earlier 20.2 pre-releases. [#55272][#55272]
- Fixed a rare scenario in which a node would refuse to start after updating the binary. The log message would indicate: `store [...], last used with cockroach version [...], is too old for running version [...] (which requires data from [...] or later)`. [#55240][#55240]
- Changefeeds defined on multiple tables will now only backfill affected tables after a schema change. [#55135][#55135]
- Fixed a bug where adding child tables or types to a schema being restored would cause those new child objects to become corrupted with no parent schema if the restore job had to be rolled back. [#55157][#55157]
- Fixed a bug where the seconds component of a zone offset of a `TIMESTAMPTZ` value was not displayed. [#55071][#55071]
- Fixed a bug where casts to regclass were not escaped, e.g., when the type or table name had `"` characters. [#55607][#55607]
- Fixed a bug where casts from string to regproc, regtype or regprocedure would not work if they contained `"` characters at the beginning or at the end. [#55607][#55607]
- Fixed a bug which could cause `IMPORT`, `BACKUP`, or `RESTORE` to experience an error when they occur concurrently to when the cluster sets its version to upgraded. [#55524][#55524]
- Fixed a rare crash during tracing when reading un-decodable data. [#55783][#55783]
- Prevented a crash, introduced in the 20.2 series, caused by range scans over virtual tables with virtual indexes. [#56459][#56459]
- In some cases CockroachDB, would attempt to transfer ranges to nodes in the process of being decommissioned or being shut down; this could cause disruption the moment the node did actually terminate. This bug has been fixed. It had been introduced some time before v2.0. [#55808][#55808]
- Fixed a bug causing queries sent to a freshly-restarted node to sometimes hang for a long time while the node catches up with replication. [#55148][#55148]
- Fixed typing of collated strings so that collation names are case-insensitive and hyphens/underscores are interchangeable. [#56352][#56352]
- Fixed internal errors related to very large `LIMIT` and/or `OFFSET` values. [#56672][#56672]
- Improved the accuracy of reported CPU usage when running in containers. [#56461][#56461]
- Fixed a bug which can lead to canceled schema change jobs ending in the failed rather than canceled state. [#55513][#55513]
- Prevented an opportunity for livelock in the jobs subsystem due to frequent updates to already finished jobs. [#56855][#56855]
- The `LogFile` reserved API, which was used by `cockroach debug zip`, could corrupt log entries. This has been fixed. [#56901][#56901]
- `DELETE` statements no longer have a chance of returning an incorrect number of deleted rows in transactions that will eventually need to restart due to contention. [#56458][#56458]
- Fixed a race condition in the `tpcc` workload with the `--scatter` flag where tables could be scattered multiple times or not at all. [#56942][#56942]
- Fixed a bug where reg* types were not parsed properly over pgwire, `COPY` or prepared statements. [#56298][#56298]
- Previously, casts and parsing of strings to types could allow an out-of-bounds value to be successfully used (e.g., `SELECT -232321321312::int2`) but fail with an out-of-bounds message when it is inserted into the table. This is now checked when the value is parsed or being casted to. [#55095][#55095]
- `cockroach debug merge-logs --redact=true --redactable-output=false` now properly removes redaction markers. [#57121][#57121]
- Fixed a bug related to validation of un-upgraded pre-19.2 inbound foreign keys. [#57132][#57132]
- Creating a materialized view that references a column with a NULL value no longer results in an error. [#57139][#57139]
- `ST_GeomFromGeoJSON` now sets the SRID to 4326, matching PostGIS 3.0 / RFC7946 behavior. [#57152][#57152]
- Fixed a bug that caused an "ambiguous column reference" error during foreign key cascading updates. This error was incorrectly produced when the child table's reference column name was equal to the concatenation of the parent's reference column name and "_new", and when the child table had a `CHECK` constraint, computed column, or partial index predicate expression that referenced the column. This bug was introduce in version 20.2. [#57153][#57153]
- Fixed a bug that caused errors or corrupted partial indexes of child tables in foreign key relationships with cascading `UPDATE`s and `DELETE`s. The corrupt partial indexes could result in incorrect query results. Any partial indexes on child tables of foreign key relationships with `ON DELETE CASCADE` or `ON UPDATE CASCADE` actions may be corrupt and should be dropped and re-created. This bug was introduce in version 20.2. [#57100][#57100]
- Second timezone offsets for `TIMETZ` now correctly display over the Postgres wire protocol; these were previously omitted. [#57265][#57265]
- `SELECT FOR UPDATE` now requires both `SELECT` and `UPDATE` privileges, instead of just `UPDATE` privileges. [#57309][#57309]
- Fixed a bug where users of an OSS build of CockroachDB would see "Page Not Found" when loading the DB Console. [#56591][#56591]

<h3 id="v21-1-0-alpha-1-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- The optimizer can now deduce that certain variable arguments to functions must be non-null. This improves cardinality estimation for those variables and unlocks other types of optimizations. As a result, the optimizer may choose better query plans when a function is used as a filter predicate. [#54558][#54558]
- Improved the selectivity estimate for array contains predicates (e.g., `arr @> ARRAY[1]`) in the optimizer. This improves the optimizer's cardinality estimation for queries containing these predicates, and may result in better query plans in some cases. [#54768][#54768]
- Updated the cost model in the optimizer to make index joins more expensive and better reflect the reality of their cost. As a result, the optimizer will choose index joins less frequently, generally resulting in more efficient query plans. [#54768][#54768]
- The optimizer simplifies join expressions to only scan a single table when the join filter is a contradiction. A limitation, now removed, was preventing this simplification from occurring in some cases, leading to more efficient query plans in some cases. [#54813][#54813]
- Improved the efficiency of plans for the execution of left outer spatial joins. [#55216][#55216]
- The optimizer now considers partial indexes when exploring zigzag joins. This may lead to more efficient query plans for queries that (1) operate on tables with partial indexes and (2) have a filter that holds two columns, indexed by two indexes, constant. [#55401][#55401]
- The optimizer now attempts to split a query with a disjunctive filter (OR expression) into a UNION of index scans, where one or both of the scans is an unconstrained partial index scan. As a result, more efficient query plans may be generated for queries with disjunctive filters that operate on tables with partial indexes. [#55915][#55915]
- CSV imports should now be slightly faster. [#55845][#55845]
- Previously, all `CHECK` constraints defined on a table would be tested for every `UPDATE` to the table. Now, a check constraint will not be tested for validity when the values of columns it references are not being updated. The referenced columns are no longer fetched in cases where they were only fetched to test `CHECK` constraints. [#56007][#56007]
- Indexes on computed columns can now be utilized when filters reference the computed expression and not the computed column directly. [#55867][#55867]
- The query optimizer can now generate inverted zigzag joins over partial GIN indexes. This may lead to more efficient query plans when filtering by a column that is indexed by a partial GIN index. [#56101][#56101]
- They query optimizer can now plan zigzag joins on two partial indexes with the same predicate, leading to more efficient query plans in some cases. [#56103][#56103]
- The optimizer now converts inner joins with single-row values expressions into projections. This allows decorrelation of subqueries that only reference variables from the outer query, such as `SELECT (SELECT value + 10) FROM table`. [#55961][#55961]
- The optimizer may now plan an inverted join if two tables are joined on `JSONB` or `ARRAY` columns using a contains predicate (e.g., `WHERE a @> b`), and the first column has a GIN index. The inverted join will be chosen if the optimizer expects it to be more efficient than any alternative plan. For queries in which the only alternative is a cartesian product followed by a filter, the inverted join will likely result in a performance improvement. [#55679][#55679]
- The hybrid logical clock used to coordinate distributed operations now performs significantly better under high contention with many concurrent updates from remote nodes. [#56708][#56708]
- The Raft processing goroutine pool's size is now capped at 96. This was observed to prevent instability on large machines (32+ vCPU) in clusters with many ranges (50k+ per node). [#56860][#56860]
- Interactions between Raft heartbeats and the Raft goroutine pool scheduler are now more efficient and avoid excessive mutex contention. This was observed to prevent instability on large machines (32+ vCPU) in clusters with many ranges (50k+ per node). [#56860][#56860]
- The Raft scheduler now prioritizes the node liveness Range. This was observed to prevent instability on large machines (32+ vCPU) in clusters with many ranges (50k+ per node). [#56860][#56860]
- The optimizer now supports using a GIN index on `JSONB` or `ARRAY` columns for a wider variety of filter predicates. Previously, GIN index usage was only supported for simple predicates (e.g., `WHERE a @> '{"foo": "bar"}'`), but now more complicated predicates are supported by combining simple contains (`@>`) expressions with `AND` and `OR` (e.g., `WHERE a @> '{"foo": "bar"}' OR a @> '{"foo": "baz"}'`). A GIN index will be used if it is available on the filtered column and the optimizer expects it to be more efficient than any alternative plan. This may result in performance improvements for queries involving `JSONB` and `ARRAU` columns. [#56732][#56732]

<h3 id="v21-1-0-alpha-1-doc-updates">Doc updates</h3>

- Updated several Hello World tutorials to use `cockroach demo` as the backend and an external repository for code samples, including Go with [pgx](../v21.1/build-a-go-app-with-cockroachdb.html) and [GORM](../v21.1/build-a-go-app-with-cockroachdb-gorm.html), Java with [JDBC](../v21.1/build-a-java-app-with-cockroachdb.html) and [Hibernate](../v21.1/build-a-java-app-with-cockroachdb-hibernate.html), and Python with [psycopg2](../v21.1/build-a-python-app-with-cockroachdb.html), [SQLAlchemy](../v21.1/build-a-python-app-with-cockroachdb-sqlalchemy.html), and [Django](../v21.1/build-a-python-app-with-cockroachdb-django.html). [#9025](https://github.com/cockroachdb/docs/pull/9025),[#8991](https://github.com/cockroachdb/docs/pull/8991),
- Updated the [Production Checklist](../v21.1/recommended-production-settings.html) to recommend disabling Linux memory swapping to avoid over-allocating memory. [#8979](https://github.com/cockroachdb/docs/pull/8979)

<div class="release-note-contributors" markdown="1">

<h3 id="v21-1-0-alpha-1-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 1040 merged PRs by 88 authors. We would like to thank the following contributors from the CockroachDB community:

- Adrian Popescu (first-time contributor)
- Alan Acosta (first-time contributor)
- ArjunM98 (first-time contributor)
- Artem Barger
- Azdim Zul Fahmi (first-time contributor)
- David Pacheco (first-time contributor)
- Erik Grinaker
- Gabriel Jaldon (first-time contributor)
- Jake Rote (first-time contributor)
- Joshua M. Clulow (first-time contributor)
- Marcin Knychała (first-time contributor)
- Max Neverov (first-time contributor)
- Miguel Novelo (first-time contributor)
- Ruixin Bao (first-time contributor)
- TAKAHASHI Yuto (first-time contributor)
- Tayo (first-time contributor)
- Tim Graham (first-time contributor)
- Tom Milligan (first-time contributor)
- Vaibhav
- alex-berger@gmx.ch (first-time contributor)
- alex.berger@nexiot.ch (first-time contributor)
- haseth (first-time contributor)
- hewei03 (first-time contributor)
- neeral
- xinyue (first-time contributor)

</div>

[#30624]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/30624
[#50869]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/50869
[#53390]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/53390
[#53485]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/53485
[#53547]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/53547
[#53926]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/53926
[#54017]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54017
[#54026]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54026
[#54044]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54044
[#54064]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54064
[#54140]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54140
[#54143]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54143
[#54163]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54163
[#54215]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54215
[#54230]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54230
[#54268]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54268
[#54317]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54317
[#54322]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54322
[#54329]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54329
[#54349]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54349
[#54350]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54350
[#54352]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54352
[#54355]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54355
[#54376]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54376
[#54446]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54446
[#54518]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54518
[#54558]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54558
[#54594]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54594
[#54610]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54610
[#54618]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54618
[#54628]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54628
[#54668]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54668
[#54673]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54673
[#54741]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54741
[#54749]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54749
[#54768]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54768
[#54796]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54796
[#54811]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54811
[#54813]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54813
[#54843]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54843
[#54851]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54851
[#54853]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54853
[#54855]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54855
[#54870]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54870
[#54880]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54880
[#54890]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54890
[#54896]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54896
[#54943]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54943
[#54951]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54951
[#54960]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/54960
[#55050]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55050
[#55063]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55063
[#55071]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55071
[#55076]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55076
[#55095]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55095
[#55120]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55120
[#55129]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55129
[#55135]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55135
[#55139]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55139
[#55143]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55143
[#55147]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55147
[#55148]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55148
[#55157]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55157
[#55172]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55172
[#55186]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55186
[#55216]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55216
[#55222]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55222
[#55240]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55240
[#55248]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55248
[#55263]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55263
[#55269]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55269
[#55272]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55272
[#55300]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55300
[#55304]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55304
[#55312]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55312
[#55373]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55373
[#55386]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55386
[#55401]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55401
[#55416]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55416
[#55417]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55417
[#55428]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55428
[#55429]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55429
[#55459]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55459
[#55464]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55464
[#55470]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55470
[#55509]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55509
[#55513]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55513
[#55515]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55515
[#55517]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55517
[#55524]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55524
[#55532]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55532
[#55543]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55543
[#55565]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55565
[#55567]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55567
[#55570]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55570
[#55607]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55607
[#55611]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55611
[#55612]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55612
[#55626]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55626
[#55638]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55638
[#55641]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55641
[#55644]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55644
[#55647]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55647
[#55660]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55660
[#55679]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55679
[#55699]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55699
[#55700]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55700
[#55705]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55705
[#55707]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55707
[#55720]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55720
[#55721]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55721
[#55751]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55751
[#55759]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55759
[#55760]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55760
[#55783]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55783
[#55785]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55785
[#55808]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55808
[#55812]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55812
[#55827]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55827
[#55831]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55831
[#55845]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55845
[#55866]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55866
[#55867]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55867
[#55891]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55891
[#55894]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55894
[#55907]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55907
[#55915]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55915
[#55916]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55916
[#55934]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55934
[#55945]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55945
[#55958]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55958
[#55961]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55961
[#55969]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55969
[#55970]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55970
[#55982]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55982
[#55983]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55983
[#55993]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55993
[#55994]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/55994
[#56007]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56007
[#56025]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56025
[#56080]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56080
[#56101]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56101
[#56103]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56103
[#56135]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56135
[#56144]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56144
[#56183]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56183
[#56198]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56198
[#56213]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56213
[#56283]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56283
[#56296]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56296
[#56298]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56298
[#56344]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56344
[#56352]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56352
[#56363]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56363
[#56373]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56373
[#56388]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56388
[#56392]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56392
[#56455]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56455
[#56458]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56458
[#56459]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56459
[#56461]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56461
[#56470]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56470
[#56477]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56477
[#56524]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56524
[#56533]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56533
[#56546]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56546
[#56574]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56574
[#56585]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56585
[#56587]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56587
[#56589]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56589
[#56591]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56591
[#56598]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56598
[#56627]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56627
[#56628]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56628
[#56631]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56631
[#56634]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56634
[#56653]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56653
[#56672]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56672
[#56679]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56679
[#56681]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56681
[#56708]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56708
[#56732]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56732
[#56737]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56737
[#56762]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56762
[#56773]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56773
[#56822]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56822
[#56827]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56827
[#56829]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56829
[#56837]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56837
[#56855]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56855
[#56858]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56858
[#56860]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56860
[#56869]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56869
[#56872]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56872
[#56874]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56874
[#56880]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56880
[#56881]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56881
[#56883]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56883
[#56898]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56898
[#56901]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56901
[#56942]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56942
[#56943]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56943
[#56953]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56953
[#56964]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56964
[#56974]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56974
[#56975]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/56975
[#57003]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/57003
[#57004]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/57004
[#57006]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/57006
[#57007]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/57007
[#57038]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/57038
[#57040]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/57040
[#57050]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/57050
[#57076]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/57076
[#57100]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/57100
[#57106]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/57106
[#57121]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/57121
[#57132]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/57132
[#57139]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/57139
[#57142]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/57142
[#57143]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/57143
[#57152]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/57152
[#57153]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/57153
[#57179]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/57179
[#57180]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/57180
[#57197]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/57197
[#57212]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/57212
[#57241]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/57241
[#57256]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/57256
[#57265]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/57265
[#57278]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/57278
[#57284]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/57284
[#57309]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/57309
[#57316]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/57316
[#57320]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/57320
[#57355]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/57355
