## v21.1.4

Release Date: June 29, 2021

{{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}
We recommend upgrading from this release to the [v21.1.5](v21.1.html#v21-1-5) bug fix release as soon as possible.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

{% include releases/release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v21-1-4-security-updates">Security updates</h3>

- Previously, all the [logging](../v21.1/logging-overview.html) output to files or network sinks was disabled temporarily while an operator was using the `/debug/logspy` HTTP API, resulting in lost entries and a breach of auditability guarantees. This behavior has been corrected. [#66328][#66328]
- CockroachDB now configures a maximum number of concurrent password verifications in the server process, across UI and SQL clients. This limit reduces the risk of DoS attacks or accidents due to misbehaving clients. By default, the maximum amount of concurrency is ~12% of the number of allocated CPU cores (as per `GOMAXPROCS`), with a minimum of 1 core. This default can be overridden using the environment variable `COCKROACH_MAX_BCRYPT_CONCURRENCY`. [#66367][#66367] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}

<h3 id="v21-1-4-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- Implemented the `ST_HasArc` [built-in function](../v21.1/functions-and-operators.html#spatial-functions). This adds better out-of-the-box support for [GeoServer](../v21.1/geoserver.html). [#66531][#66531] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- Added a new internal [cluster setting](../v21.1/cluster-settings.html), `jobs.cancel_update_limit`, for controlling how many [jobs](../v21.1/show-jobs.html) are cleaned up concurrently after query cancellation. [#66488][#66488] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}

<h3 id="v21-1-4-command-line-changes">Command-line changes</h3>

- The [SQL shell](../v21.1/cockroach-sql.html) now formats times with time zones so that the minutes and seconds offsets are only shown if they are non-zero. Also, infinite floating point values are now formatted as `Infinity` rather than `Inf`. [#66130][#66130] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
- When [log entries](../v21.1/logging-overview.html) are written to disk, the first few header lines written at the start of every new file now report the configured [logging format](../v21.1/log-formats.html). [#66328][#66328] {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}

<h3 id="v21-1-4-api-endpoint-changes">API endpoint changes</h3>

- The `/debug/logspy` HTTP API has changed. The endpoint now returns JSON data by default. If the previous format is desired, the user can pass the query argument `&flatten=1` to the `logspy` URL to obtain the previous flat text format (`crdb-v1`) instead. [#66328][#66328] This change is motivated as follows: {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
    - The previous format, `crdb-v1`, cannot be parsed reliably.
    - Using JSON entries guarantees that the text of each entry all fits on a single line of output (newline characters inside the messages are escaped). This makes filtering easier and more reliable.
    - Using JSON enables the user to apply `jq` on the output, for example via `curl -s .../debug/logspy | jq ...`.
- The `/debug/logspy` API no longer enables maximum logging verbosity automatically. To change the verbosity, use the new `/debug/vmodule` endpoint or pass the `&vmodule=` query parameter to the `/debug/logspy` endpoint. [#66328][#66328] For example, suppose you wish to run a 20s logspy session: {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
    - Before: `curl 'https://.../debug/logspy?duration=20s&...'`.
    - Now: `curl 'https://.../debug/logspy?duration=20s&vmodule=...'` OR `curl 'https://.../debug/vmodule?duration=22s&vmodule=...'   curl 'https://.../debug/logspy?duration=20s'`.
    - As for the regular `vmodule` command-line flag, the maximum verbosity across all the source code can be selected with the pattern `*=4`.
    - Note: at most one in-flight HTTP API request is allowed to modify the `vmodule` parameter. This maintains the invariant that the configuration restored at the end of each request is the same as when the request started.
- The new `/debug/vmodule` API makes it possible for an operator to configure the logging verbosity in a similar way as the SQL [built-in function](../v21.1/functions-and-operators.html) `crdb_internal.set_vmodule()`, or to query the current configuration as in `crdb_internal.get_vmodule()`. Additionally, any configuration change performed via this API can be automatically reverted after a configurable delay. [#66328][#66328] The API forms are: {% comment %}doc{% endcomment %}
    - `/debug/vmodule`: Retrieve the current configuration
    - `/debug/vmodule?set=[vmodule config]&duration=[duration]`: Change the configuration to `[vmodule config]` . The previous configuration at the time the `/debug/vmodule` request started is restored after `[duration]`. This duration, if not specified, defaults to twice the default duration of a `logspy` request (currently, the `logspy`   default duration is 5s, so the `vmodule` default duration is 10s). If the duration is zero or negative, the previous configuration is never restored.

<h3 id="v21-1-4-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- Fixed an issue with displaying more than 100 hours of remaining time on the [Jobs page](../v21.1/ui-jobs-page.html). [#66596][#66596]

<h3 id="v21-1-4-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Minute timezone offsets are only displayed in the wire protocol if they are non-zero for `TimestampTZ` and `TimeTZ` values. Previously, they would always display. [#66130][#66130]
- Fixed a bug where binary `TimeTZ` values were not being decoded correctly when being sent as a parameter in the wire protocol. [#66130][#66130]
- CockroachDB's [SQL shell](../v21.1/cockroach-sql.html) now properly displays results of common array types, for example: arrays of floats, or arrays of strings. [#66130][#66130]
- Fixed a bug where the `--log='file-defaults: {format: crdb-v1}'` flag was not being handled properly. This bug existed since v21.1.0. [#66328][#66328]
- Fixed a bug where log entries could be lost while the `/debug/logspy` HTTP API was being used. This bug had existed since CockroachDB v1.1. [#66328][#66328]
- The binary encoding of decimals will no longer have negative `dscale` values. This was preventing [Npgsql](https://www.npgsql.org) from being able to read some binary decimals from CockroachDB. [#66532][#66532]
- A bug has been fixed which prevented the [optimizer](../v21.1/cost-based-optimizer.html) from producing plans with [partial indexes](../v21.1/partial-indexes.html) when executing some prepared statements that contained placeholders, stable functions, or casts. This bug was present since partial indexes were added in v20.2.0. [#66634][#66634]
- Fixed a bug which could have prevented [backups](../v21.1/backup.html) from being successfully [restored](../v21.1/restore.html). [#66616][#66616]
- Fixed a bug where CockroachDB could crash when executing [`EXPLAIN (VEC)`](../v21.1/explain.html#vec-option) on some mutations. The bug is present only in the v21.1.1-v21.1.3 releases. [#66573][#66573]
- Fixed a bug where CockroachDB could encounter an internal error when computing [window functions](../v21.1/window-functions.html) with `ROWS` mode of window framing if the offsets were very large for the `OFFSET FOLLOWING` boundary type. [#66446][#66446]
- Fixed a bug where using [`ADD COLUMN UNIQUE`](../v21.1/add-column.html) on [`REGIONAL BY ROW` tables](../v21.1/set-locality.html#regional-by-row) did not correctly add the [zone configs](../v21.1/configure-replication-zones.html) for the newly created column index. [#66696][#66696]
- Fixed a bug where reading from Google Cloud Storage was not using the resuming reader, as a result of which some retryable errors were not being treated as such, and the read would fail. [#66190][#66190]
- Fixed a deadlock during [backups](../v21.1/backup.html) and [imports](../v21.1/import.html). [#66773][#66773]
- Fixed incorrect accounting for statement/transaction sampled [execution statistics](../v21.1/explain-analyze.html). [#66790][#66790]
- Fixed a bug causing [transactions](../v21.1/transactions.html) to be spuriously aborted in rare circumstances. [#66567][#66567]

<h3 id="v21-1-4-db-console">DB Console</h3>

- Fixed a CSS width calculation which was causing the multibar to not be visible in the [DB Console](../v21.1/ui-overview.html). [#66739][#66739]

<h3 id="v21-1-4-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 28 merged PRs by 22 authors.

[#66130]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/66130
[#66190]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/66190
[#66328]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/66328
[#66367]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/66367
[#66446]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/66446
[#66473]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/66473
[#66488]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/66488
[#66531]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/66531
[#66532]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/66532
[#66567]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/66567
[#66573]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/66573
[#66596]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/66596
[#66616]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/66616
[#66634]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/66634
[#66696]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/66696
[#66739]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/66739
[#66773]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/66773
[#66790]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/66790
