## v21.1.18

Release Date: April 12, 2022

{% include releases/release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}


<h3 id="v21-1-18-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug where restores of data with multiple [column families](../v21.1/column-families.html) could be split illegally (within a single SQL row). This could result in temporary data unavailability until the ranges on either side of the invalid split are merged. [#79207][#79207]
- Fixed a bug where [`SHOW SCHEMAS FROM <schema>`](../v21.1/show-schemas.html) would not include user-defined schemas. [#79306][#79306]
- Previously, [`LIMIT`](../v21.1/limit-offset.html) queries with an [`ORDER BY`](../v21.1/order-by.html) clause which scan the index of a virtual system tables, such as `pg_type`, could return incorrect results. This has been corrected by teaching the [optimizer](../v21.1/cost-based-optimizer.html) that `LIMIT` operations cannot be pushed into ordered scans of virtual indexes. [#79466][#79466]
- Fixed a bug that caused the [optimizer](../v21.1/cost-based-optimizer.html) to generate invalid query plans which could result in incorrect query results. The bug, present since version v21.1.0, can appear if all of the following conditions are true:
    - The query contains a semi-join, e.g., with the format `SELECT * FROM a WHERE EXISTS (SELECT * FROM b WHERE a.a @> b.b)`.
    - The inner table has a multi-column [inverted index](../v21.1/inverted-indexes.html) containing the inverted column in the filter.
    - The index prefix columns are constrained to a set of values via the filter or a [`CHECK`](../v21.1/check.html) constraint, e.g., with an `IN` operator. In the case of a `CHECK` constraint, the column is `NOT NULL`. [#79508][#79508]

<h3 id="v21-1-18-contributors">Contributors</h3>

This release includes 12 merged PRs by 10 authors.

[#79207]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/79207
[#79306]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/79306
[#79466]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/79466
[#79508]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/79508
