v21.1/alter-sequence.md, before:

---
title: ALTER SEQUENCE
summary: Use the ALTER SEQUENCE statement to change the name, increment values, and other settings of a sequence.
toc: true
---

The `ALTER SEQUENCE` [statement](sql-statements.html) applies a [schema change](online-schema-changes.html) to a sequence.

{% include {{{ page.version.version }}/misc/schema-change-stmt-note.md %}

## Required privileges

- To alter a sequence, the user must have the `CREATE` [privilege](authorization.html#assign-privileges) on the parent database.
- To change the schema of a sequence with `ALTER SEQUENCE ... SET SCHEMA`, or to change the database of a sequence with `ALTER SEQUENCE ... RENAME TO`, the user must also have the `DROP` [privilege](authorization.html#assign-privileges) on the sequence.

## Syntax

<div>{% include {{ page.version.version }}/sql/generated/diagrams/alter_sequence.html %}</div>

## Parameters

<style>
table td:first-child {
    min-width: 225px;
}
</style>

 Parameter | Description
-----------|------------
`IF EXISTS` | Modify the sequence only if it exists; if it does not exist, do not return an error.
`sequence_name` | The name of the sequence.
`RENAME TO sequence_name` | Rename the sequence to `sequence_name`, which must be unique to its database and follow these [identifier rules](keywords-and-identifiers.html#identifiers). Name changes do not propagate to the  table(s) using the sequence.<br><br>Note that `RENAME TO` can be used to move a sequence from one database to another, but it cannot be used to move a sequence from one schema to another. To change a sequence's schema, use `ALTER SEQUENCE ...SET SCHEMA` instead. In a future release, `RENAME TO` will be limited to changing the name of a sequence, and will not have to the ability to change a sequence's database.
`CYCLE`/`NO CYCLE` | The sequence will wrap around when the sequence value hits the maximum or minimum value. If `NO CYCLE` is set, the sequence will not wrap.
`OWNED BY column_name` | Associates the sequence to a particular column. If that column or its parent table is dropped, the sequence will also be dropped.<br><br>Specifying an owner column with `OWNED BY` replaces any existing owner column on the sequence. To remove existing column ownership on the sequence and make the column free-standing, specify `OWNED BY NONE`.<br><br>**Default:** `NONE`
`CACHE` | <span class="version-tag">New in v21.1:</span> The number of sequence values to cache in memory for reuse in the session. A cache size of `1` means that there is no cache, and cache sizes of less than `1` are not valid.<br><br>**Default:** `1` (sequences are not cached by default)
`MINVALUE` | The new minimum value of the sequence. <br><br>**Default:** `1`
`MAXVALUE` | The new maximum value of the sequence. <br><br>**Default:** `9223372036854775807`
`INCREMENT` | The new value by which the sequence is incremented. A negative number creates a descending sequence. A positive number creates an ascending sequence.
`START` | The value the sequence starts at if you `RESTART` or if the sequence hits the `MAXVALUE` and `CYCLE` is set. <br><br>`RESTART` and `CYCLE` are not implemented yet.
`VIRTUAL` | Creates a *virtual sequence*.<br><br>Virtual sequences are sequences that do not generate monotonically increasing values and instead produce values like those generated by the built-in function [`unique_rowid()`](functions-and-operators.html). They are intended for use in combination with [`SERIAL`](serial.html)-typed columns.
`SET SCHEMA schema_name` | Change the schema of the sequence to `schema_name`.
`OWNER TO role_spec` | <span class="version-tag">New in v21.1:</span> Change the owner of the sequence to `role_spec`.

## Examples

### Change the increment value of a sequence

In this example, we're going to change the increment value of a sequence from its current state (i.e., `1`) to `2`.

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> CREATE SEQUENCE customer_seq;
~~~

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> SHOW CREATE customer_seq;
~~~

~~~
   table_name  |                                     create_statement
---------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  customer_seq | CREATE SEQUENCE customer_seq MINVALUE 1 MAXVALUE 9223372036854775807 INCREMENT 1 START 1
(1 row)
~~~

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> ALTER SEQUENCE customer_seq INCREMENT 2;
~~~

~~~
   table_name  |                                        create_statement
---------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  customer_seq | CREATE SEQUENCE public.customer_seq MINVALUE 1 MAXVALUE 9223372036854775807 INCREMENT 2 START 1
(1 row)
~~~

### Rename a sequence

In this example, we will change the name of sequence.

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> CREATE SEQUENCE even_numbers INCREMENT 2 START 2;
~~~

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> SHOW SEQUENCES;
~~~

~~~
  sequence_schema | sequence_name
------------------+----------------
  public          | even_numbers
(1 row)
~~~

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> ALTER SEQUENCE even_numbers RENAME TO even_sequence;
~~~

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> SHOW SEQUENCES;
~~~

~~~
  sequence_schema | sequence_name
------------------+----------------
  public          | even_sequence
(1 row)
~~~

### Change the database of a sequence

In this example, we will move the sequence we renamed in the first example (`even_sequence`) from `defaultdb` (i.e., the default database) to a different database.

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> SHOW SEQUENCES FROM defaultdb;
~~~

~~~
  sequence_schema | sequence_name
------------------+----------------
  public          | even_sequence
(1 row)
~~~

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> CREATE DATABASE mydb;
~~~

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> ALTER SEQUENCE even_sequence RENAME TO mydb.even_sequence;
~~~

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> SHOW SEQUENCES FROM defaultdb;
~~~

~~~
  sequence_schema | sequence_name
------------------+----------------
(0 rows)
~~~

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> SHOW SEQUENCES FROM mydb;
~~~

~~~
  sequence_schema | sequence_name
------------------+----------------
  public          | even_sequence
(1 row)
~~~

### Change the schema of a sequence

Suppose you [create a sequence](create-sequence.html) that you would like to add to a new schema called `cockroach_labs`:

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> CREATE SEQUENCE even_numbers INCREMENT 2 START 2;
~~~

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> SHOW SEQUENCES;
~~~

~~~
  sequence_schema | sequence_name
------------------+----------------
  public          | even_numbers
(1 row)
~~~

By default, [unqualified sequences](sql-name-resolution.html#lookup-with-unqualified-names) created in the database belong to the `public` schema:

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> SHOW CREATE public.even_numbers;
~~~

~~~
      table_name      |                                        create_statement
----------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  public.even_numbers | CREATE SEQUENCE public.even_numbers MINVALUE 1 MAXVALUE 9223372036854775807 INCREMENT 2 START 2
(1 row)
~~~

If the new schema does not already exist, [create it](create-schema.html):

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> CREATE SCHEMA IF NOT EXISTS cockroach_labs;
~~~

Then, change the sequence's schema:

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> ALTER SEQUENCE even_numbers SET SCHEMA cockroach_labs;
~~~

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> SHOW CREATE public.even_numbers;
~~~

~~~
ERROR: relation "public.even_numbers" does not exist
SQLSTATE: 42P01
~~~

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> SHOW SEQUENCES;
~~~

~~~
  sequence_schema | sequence_name
------------------+----------------
  cockroach_labs  | even_numbers
(1 row)
~~~

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> SHOW CREATE cockroach_labs.even_numbers;
~~~

~~~
          table_name          |                                            create_statement
------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  cockroach_labs.even_numbers | CREATE SEQUENCE cockroach_labs.even_numbers MINVALUE 1 MAXVALUE 9223372036854775807 INCREMENT 2 START 2
(1 row)
~~~

## See also

- [`CREATE SEQUENCE`](create-sequence.html)
- [`DROP SEQUENCE`](drop-sequence.html)
- [`SHOW SEQUENCES`](show-sequences.html)
- [Functions and Operators](functions-and-operators.html)
- [Other SQL Statements](sql-statements.html)
- [Online Schema Changes](online-schema-changes.html)

Commit message:

DOC-3423: Standardize "New in vXX.Y" version callouts (#13962)
Fixes DOC-3423

v21.1/alter-sequence.md, after:

---
title: ALTER SEQUENCE
summary: Use the ALTER SEQUENCE statement to change the name, increment values, and other settings of a sequence.
toc: true
---

The `ALTER SEQUENCE` [statement](sql-statements.html) applies a [schema change](online-schema-changes.html) to a sequence.

{% include {{{ page.version.version }}/misc/schema-change-stmt-note.md %}

## Required privileges

- To alter a sequence, the user must have the `CREATE` [privilege](authorization.html#assign-privileges) on the parent database.
- To change the schema of a sequence with `ALTER SEQUENCE ... SET SCHEMA`, or to change the database of a sequence with `ALTER SEQUENCE ... RENAME TO`, the user must also have the `DROP` [privilege](authorization.html#assign-privileges) on the sequence.

## Syntax

<div>{% include {{ page.version.version }}/sql/generated/diagrams/alter_sequence.html %}</div>

## Parameters

<style>
table td:first-child {
    min-width: 225px;
}
</style>

 Parameter | Description
-----------|------------
`IF EXISTS` | Modify the sequence only if it exists; if it does not exist, do not return an error.
`sequence_name` | The name of the sequence.
`RENAME TO sequence_name` | Rename the sequence to `sequence_name`, which must be unique to its database and follow these [identifier rules](keywords-and-identifiers.html#identifiers). Name changes do not propagate to the  table(s) using the sequence.<br><br>Note that `RENAME TO` can be used to move a sequence from one database to another, but it cannot be used to move a sequence from one schema to another. To change a sequence's schema, use `ALTER SEQUENCE ...SET SCHEMA` instead. In a future release, `RENAME TO` will be limited to changing the name of a sequence, and will not have to the ability to change a sequence's database.
`CYCLE`/`NO CYCLE` | The sequence will wrap around when the sequence value hits the maximum or minimum value. If `NO CYCLE` is set, the sequence will not wrap.
`OWNED BY column_name` | Associates the sequence to a particular column. If that column or its parent table is dropped, the sequence will also be dropped.<br><br>Specifying an owner column with `OWNED BY` replaces any existing owner column on the sequence. To remove existing column ownership on the sequence and make the column free-standing, specify `OWNED BY NONE`.<br><br>**Default:** `NONE`
`CACHE` | {% include_cached new-in.html version="v21.1" %} The number of sequence values to cache in memory for reuse in the session. A cache size of `1` means that there is no cache, and cache sizes of less than `1` are not valid.<br><br>**Default:** `1` (sequences are not cached by default)
`MINVALUE` | The new minimum value of the sequence. <br><br>**Default:** `1`
`MAXVALUE` | The new maximum value of the sequence. <br><br>**Default:** `9223372036854775807`
`INCREMENT` | The new value by which the sequence is incremented. A negative number creates a descending sequence. A positive number creates an ascending sequence.
`START` | The value the sequence starts at if you `RESTART` or if the sequence hits the `MAXVALUE` and `CYCLE` is set. <br><br>`RESTART` and `CYCLE` are not implemented yet.
`VIRTUAL` | Creates a *virtual sequence*.<br><br>Virtual sequences are sequences that do not generate monotonically increasing values and instead produce values like those generated by the built-in function [`unique_rowid()`](functions-and-operators.html). They are intended for use in combination with [`SERIAL`](serial.html)-typed columns.
`SET SCHEMA schema_name` | Change the schema of the sequence to `schema_name`.
`OWNER TO role_spec` | {% include_cached new-in.html version="v21.1" %} Change the owner of the sequence to `role_spec`.

## Examples

### Change the increment value of a sequence

In this example, we're going to change the increment value of a sequence from its current state (i.e., `1`) to `2`.

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> CREATE SEQUENCE customer_seq;
~~~

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> SHOW CREATE customer_seq;
~~~

~~~
   table_name  |                                     create_statement
---------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  customer_seq | CREATE SEQUENCE customer_seq MINVALUE 1 MAXVALUE 9223372036854775807 INCREMENT 1 START 1
(1 row)
~~~

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> ALTER SEQUENCE customer_seq INCREMENT 2;
~~~

~~~
   table_name  |                                        create_statement
---------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  customer_seq | CREATE SEQUENCE public.customer_seq MINVALUE 1 MAXVALUE 9223372036854775807 INCREMENT 2 START 1
(1 row)
~~~

### Rename a sequence

In this example, we will change the name of sequence.

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> CREATE SEQUENCE even_numbers INCREMENT 2 START 2;
~~~

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> SHOW SEQUENCES;
~~~

~~~
  sequence_schema | sequence_name
------------------+----------------
  public          | even_numbers
(1 row)
~~~

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> ALTER SEQUENCE even_numbers RENAME TO even_sequence;
~~~

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> SHOW SEQUENCES;
~~~

~~~
  sequence_schema | sequence_name
------------------+----------------
  public          | even_sequence
(1 row)
~~~

### Change the database of a sequence

In this example, we will move the sequence we renamed in the first example (`even_sequence`) from `defaultdb` (i.e., the default database) to a different database.

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> SHOW SEQUENCES FROM defaultdb;
~~~

~~~
  sequence_schema | sequence_name
------------------+----------------
  public          | even_sequence
(1 row)
~~~

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> CREATE DATABASE mydb;
~~~

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> ALTER SEQUENCE even_sequence RENAME TO mydb.even_sequence;
~~~

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> SHOW SEQUENCES FROM defaultdb;
~~~

~~~
  sequence_schema | sequence_name
------------------+----------------
(0 rows)
~~~

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> SHOW SEQUENCES FROM mydb;
~~~

~~~
  sequence_schema | sequence_name
------------------+----------------
  public          | even_sequence
(1 row)
~~~

### Change the schema of a sequence

Suppose you [create a sequence](create-sequence.html) that you would like to add to a new schema called `cockroach_labs`:

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> CREATE SEQUENCE even_numbers INCREMENT 2 START 2;
~~~

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> SHOW SEQUENCES;
~~~

~~~
  sequence_schema | sequence_name
------------------+----------------
  public          | even_numbers
(1 row)
~~~

By default, [unqualified sequences](sql-name-resolution.html#lookup-with-unqualified-names) created in the database belong to the `public` schema:

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> SHOW CREATE public.even_numbers;
~~~

~~~
      table_name      |                                        create_statement
----------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  public.even_numbers | CREATE SEQUENCE public.even_numbers MINVALUE 1 MAXVALUE 9223372036854775807 INCREMENT 2 START 2
(1 row)
~~~

If the new schema does not already exist, [create it](create-schema.html):

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> CREATE SCHEMA IF NOT EXISTS cockroach_labs;
~~~

Then, change the sequence's schema:

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> ALTER SEQUENCE even_numbers SET SCHEMA cockroach_labs;
~~~

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> SHOW CREATE public.even_numbers;
~~~

~~~
ERROR: relation "public.even_numbers" does not exist
SQLSTATE: 42P01
~~~

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> SHOW SEQUENCES;
~~~

~~~
  sequence_schema | sequence_name
------------------+----------------
  cockroach_labs  | even_numbers
(1 row)
~~~

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> SHOW CREATE cockroach_labs.even_numbers;
~~~

~~~
          table_name          |                                            create_statement
------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  cockroach_labs.even_numbers | CREATE SEQUENCE cockroach_labs.even_numbers MINVALUE 1 MAXVALUE 9223372036854775807 INCREMENT 2 START 2
(1 row)
~~~

## See also

- [`CREATE SEQUENCE`](create-sequence.html)
- [`DROP SEQUENCE`](drop-sequence.html)
- [`SHOW SEQUENCES`](show-sequences.html)
- [Functions and Operators](functions-and-operators.html)
- [Other SQL Statements](sql-statements.html)
- [Online Schema Changes](online-schema-changes.html)
