In a _regional by row_ table, individual rows are optimized for access from different home regions. Each row's home region is specified in a hidden [`crdb_region` column]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/alter-table.md %}#crdb_region), and is by default the region of the [gateway node]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/architecture/life-of-a-distributed-transaction.md %}#gateway) from which the row is inserted. The `REGIONAL BY ROW` setting automatically divides a table and all of [its indexes]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/table-localities.md %}#indexes-on-regional-by-row-tables) into [partitions]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/partitioning.md %}) that use `crdb_region` as the prefix.

Use regional by row tables when your application requires low-latency reads and writes at a row level where individual rows are primarily accessed from a single region. For an example of a table in a multi-region cluster that can benefit from the `REGIONAL BY ROW` setting, see the `users` table from the [MovR application]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/movr.md %}), which could store users' data in specific regions for better performance.

To take advantage of regional by row tables:

- Use unique key lookups or queries with [`LIMIT`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/limit-offset.md %}) clauses to enable [locality optimized searches]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cost-based-optimizer.md %}#locality-optimized-search-in-multi-region-clusters) that prioritize rows in the gateway node's region. If there is a possibility that the results of the query all live in local rows, CockroachDB will first search for rows in the gateway node's region. The search only continues in remote regions if rows in the local region did not satisfy the query.

- Use [foreign keys]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/foreign-key.md %}#rules-for-creating-foreign-keys) that reference the [`crdb_region` column]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/alter-table.md %}#crdb_region) in [`REGIONAL BY ROW`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/table-localities.md %}#regional-by-row-tables) tables, unless [auto-rehoming is enabled]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/alter-table.md %}#turn-on-auto-rehoming-for-regional-by-row-tables) for those tables.

- [Turn on auto-rehoming for regional by row tables]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/alter-table.md %}#turn-on-auto-rehoming-for-regional-by-row-tables). A row's home region will be automatically set to the gateway region of any [`UPDATE`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/update.md %}) or [`UPSERT`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/upsert.md %}) statements that write to those rows.

For instructions showing how to set a table's locality to `REGIONAL BY ROW` and configure the home regions of its rows, see [`ALTER TABLE ... SET LOCALITY`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/alter-table.md %}#crdb_region).

For more information on regional by row tables, see the [Cockroach Labs blog post](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/blog/regional-by-row/).