---
title: SHOW JOBS
summary: The SHOW JOBS statement lists all currently active schema changes and backup/restore jobs.
toc: true
---

The `SHOW JOBS` [statement](sql-statements.html) lists all of the types of long-running tasks your cluster has performed in the last 12 hours, including:

- Schema changes through [`ALTER TABLE`](alter-table.html), [`DROP DATABASE`](drop-database.html), [`DROP TABLE`](drop-table.html), and [`TRUNCATE`](truncate.html).
- Enterprise [`BACKUP`](backup.html), [`RESTORE`](restore.html), and [`IMPORT`](import.html).
- User-created table [statistics](create-statistics.html) created for use by the [cost-based optimizer](cost-based-optimizer.html). The automatic table statistics are not displayed on running the `SHOW JOBS` statement. To view the automatic table statistics, see [SHOW AUTOMATIC JOBS](show-automatic-jobs.html)

These details can help you understand the status of crucial tasks that can impact the performance of your cluster, as well as help you control them.

## Considerations

- The `SHOW JOBS` statement shows only long-running tasks. For an exhaustive list of jobs running in the cluster, use the [SQL Audit Logging (Experimental)](sql-audit-logging.html) feature.
- For jobs older than 12 hours, query the `crdb_internal.jobs` table.
- Jobs are deleted after 14 days. This interval can be changed via the `jobs.retention_time` [cluster setting](cluster-settings.html).

## Required privileges

By default, only the `root` user can execute `SHOW JOBS`.

## Synopsis

<div>
{% include {{ page.version.version }}/sql/diagrams/show_jobs.html %}
</div>

## Response

The output of `SHOW JOBS` lists ongoing jobs first, then completed jobs within the last 12 hours. The list of ongoing jobs is sorted by starting time, whereas the list of completed jobs is sorted by finished time.

The following fields are returned for each job:

Field | Description
------|------------
`job_id` | A unique ID to identify each job. This value is used if you want to control jobs (i.e., [pause](pause-job.html), [resume](resume-job.html), or [cancel](cancel-job.html) it).
`job_type` | The type of job. Possible values: `SCHEMA CHANGE`, [`BACKUP`](backup.html), [`RESTORE`](restore.html), [`IMPORT`](import.html), and [`CREATE STATS`](create-statistics.html).
`description` | The statement that started the job, or a textual description of the job.
`statement` | This field is populated for the [`SHOW AUTOMATIC JOBS`](show-automatic-jobs.html) command and left blank for `SHOW JOBS`.
`status` | The job's current state. Possible values: `pending`, `running`, `paused`, `failed`, `succeeded`, or `canceled`.
`running_status` | The job's detailed running status, which provides visibility into the progress of the dropping or truncating of tables (i.e., [`DROP TABLE`](drop-table.html), [`DROP DATABASE`](drop-database.html), or [`TRUNCATE`](truncate.html)). For dropping or truncating jobs, the detailed running status is determined by the status of the table at the earliest stage of the schema change. The job is completed when the GC TTL expires and both the table data and ID is deleted for each of the tables involved. Possible values: `draining names`, `waiting for GC TTL`, `RocksDB compaction`, or `NULL` (when the status cannot be determined).  
`created` | The `TIMESTAMP` when the job was created.
`started` | The `TIMESTAMP` when the job began running first.
`finished` | The `TIMESTAMP` when the job was `succeeded`, `failed`, or `canceled`.
`modified` | The `TIMESTAMP` when the job had anything modified.
`fraction_completed` | The fraction (between `0.00` and `1.00`) of the job that's been completed.
`error` | If the job `failed`, the error generated by the failure.
`coordinator_id` | The ID of the node running the job.

## Examples

### Show jobs

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> SHOW JOBS;
~~~

~~~
+----------------+------------+-------------------------------------------+...
| job_id         | job_type   | description                               |...
+----------------+------------+-------------------------------------------+...
| 27536791415282 | RESTORE    | RESTORE db.* FROM 'azure://backup/db/tbl' |...
+----------------+------------+-------------------------------------------+...
~~~

### Filter jobs

You can filter jobs by using `SHOW JOBS` as the data source for a [`SELECT`](select-clause.html) statement, and then filtering the values with the `WHERE` clause.

{% include copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> SELECT * FROM [SHOW JOBS] WHERE job_type = 'RESTORE' AND status IN ('running', 'failed') ORDER BY created DESC;
~~~

~~~
+----------------+------------+-------------------------------------------+...
| job_id         | job_type   | description                               |...
+----------------+------------+-------------------------------------------+...
| 27536791415282 | RESTORE    | RESTORE db.* FROM 'azure://backup/db/tbl' |...
+----------------+------------+-------------------------------------------+...
~~~

## See also

- [`SHOW AUTOMATIC JOBS`](show-automatic-jobs.html)
- [`PAUSE JOB`](pause-job.html)
- [`RESUME JOB`](pause-job.html)
- [`CANCEL JOB`](cancel-job.html)
- [`ALTER TABLE`](alter-table.html)
- [`BACKUP`](backup.html)
- [`RESTORE`](restore.html)
