---
title: SHOW JOBS
summary: The SHOW JOBS statement lists all currently active schema changes and backup/restore jobs.
toc: false
---

<span class="version-tag">New in v1.1:</span> The `SHOW JOBS` [statement](sql-statements.html) lists all of the types of long-running tasks your cluster has performed, including:

- Schema changes through `ALTER TABLE`
- Enterprise [`BACKUP`](backup.html), [`RESTORE`](restore.html), and `IMPORT`

These details can help you understand the status of crucial tasks, as well as help you control them.

<div id="toc"></div>

## Required Privileges

By default, only the `root` user can execute `SHOW JOBS`.

## Synopsis

{% include sql/{{ page.version.version }}/diagrams/show_jobs.html %}

## Response

The following fields are returned for each job:

Field | Description
------|------------
`id` | A unique ID to identify each job. This value is used if you want to control a job's status (e.g., canceling it).
`type` | Describes the job as `SCHEMA CHANGE`, [`BACKUP`](backup.html), [`RESTORE`](restore.html), or `IMPORT`.
`description` | The command that started the job.
`username` | The user who started the job.
`descriptor_ids` | An array of table IDs affected by the job. You can find which tables these IDs correlate to using the `table_id` column of `crdb_internal.tables`.
`status` | Describes the job's current state as `pending`, `running`, `paused`, `failed`, `succeeded`, or `canceled`.
`created` | The `TIMESTAMP` when the job was created.
`started` | The `TIMESTAMP` when the job began running first.
`finished` | The `TIMESTAMP` when the job was `succeeded`, `failed`, or `canceled`.
`modified` | The `TIMESTAMP` when the job had anything modified.
`fraction_completed` | The fraction (between `0.00` and `1.00`) of the job that's been completed.
`error` | If the job `failed`, the error generated by the failure.

## Examples

### Show jobs

~~~ sql
> SHOW JOBS;
~~~
~~~
+----------------+---------+-------------------------------------------+...
|       id       |  type   |               description                 |...
+----------------+---------+-------------------------------------------+...
| 27536791415282 | RESTORE | RESTORE db.* FROM 'azure://backup/db/tbl' |...
+----------------+---------+-------------------------------------------+...
~~~

## See Also


