## v24.3.0-beta.2

Release Date: October 28, 2024

{% include "releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md", release: include.release %}

<h3 id="v24-3-0-beta-2-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- If a table is the destination of a logical data replication stream, then only schema change statements that are deemed safe are allowed on the table. Safe statements are those that do not result in a rebuild of the primary [index]({% link "v24.3/indexes.md" %}) and do not create an index on a virtual [computed column]({% link "v24.3/computed-columns.md" %}). [#133266][#133266]

<h3 id="v24-3-0-beta-2-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- The two new metrics `sql.crud_query.count` and `sql.crud_query.started.count` measure the number of [`INSERT`]({% link "v24.3/insert.md" %})/[`UPDATE`]({% link "v24.3/update.md" %})/[`DELETE`]({% link "v24.3/delete.md" %})/[`SELECT`]({% link "v24.3/selection-queries.md" %}) queries executed and started respectively. [#133198][#133198]
- When creating a logical data replication stream, any [user-defined types]({% link "v24.3/create-type.md" %}) in the source and destination are now checked for equivalency. This allows for creating a stream that handles user-defined types without needing to use the `WITH SKIP SCHEMA CHECK` option as long as the stream uses `mode = immediate`. [#133274][#133274]
- Logical data replication streams that reference tables with [user-defined types]({% link "v24.3/create-type.md" %}) can now be created with the `mode = immediate` option. [#133295][#133295]

<h3 id="v24-3-0-beta-2-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- The **SQL Statements** graph on the [**Overview**]({% link "v24.3/ui-overview-dashboard.md" %}) and [**SQL**]({% link "v24.3/ui-sql-dashboard.md" %}) dashboard pages in DB Console has been renamed [**SQL Queries Per Second**]({% link "v24.3/ui-overview-dashboard.md" %}#sql-queries-per-second) and now shows **Total Queries** as a general Queries Per Second (QPS) metric. [#133198][#133198]
- Due to the inaccuracy of the **Range Count** column on the [**Databases** page]({% link "v24.3/ui-databases-page.md" %}) and the cost incurred to fetch the correct range count for every database in a cluster, this data will no longer be visible. This data is still available via a [`SHOW RANGES`]({% link "v24.3/show-ranges.md" %}) query. [#133267][#133267]

<h3 id="v24-3-0-beta-2-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Users with the [`admin` role]({% link "v24.3/security-reference/authorization.md" %}#admin-role) can now run [`ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGES FOR target_role ...`]({% link "v24.3/alter-default-privileges.md" %}) on any `target_role`. Previously, this could result in a privilege error, which is incorrect as `admin`s are allowed to perform any operation. [#133072][#133072]
- [`REASSIGN OWNED BY current_owner_role ...`]({% link "v24.3/reassign-owned.md" %}) will now transfer ownership of the `public` schema. Previously, it would always skip over the `public` schema even if it was owned by the `current_owner_role`. [#133072][#133072]


[#133072]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/133072
[#133198]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/133198
[#133266]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/133266
[#133267]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/133267
[#133274]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/133274
[#133295]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/133295
