src/current/v25.3/refresh.md, before:

---
title: REFRESH
summary: The REFRESH statement updates the stored query results of a materialized view.
toc: true
docs_area: reference.sql
---

Stored query results in [materialized view]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/views.md %}#materialized-views) are not automatically updated to reflect the latest state of the table(s) they query. The `REFRESH` [statement]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/sql-statements.md %}) updates the stored query results of a materialized view.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
CockroachDB does not support materialized views that are refreshed on [transaction commit]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/commit-transaction.md %}).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Required privileges

The user must be the [owner]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/alter-view.md %}) of the materialized view or have [admin]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/security-reference/authorization.md %}#admin-role) privileges.

## Synopsis

<div>
{% remote_include https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cockroachdb/generated-diagrams/{{ page.release_info.crdb_branch_name }}/grammar_svg/refresh_materialized_views.html %}
</div>

## Parameters

 Parameter | Description
-----------|-------------
`opt_concurrently` | `CONCURRENTLY` (Default behavior) This keyword has no effect. It is present for PostgreSQL compatibility. All materialized views are refreshed concurrently with other jobs.
`view_name` | The name of the materialized view to refresh.
`opt_clear_data` | `WITH DATA` (Default behavior) Refresh the stored query results. <br>`WITH NO DATA` Drop the query results of the materialized view from storage.

## Example

The following example uses the [sample `bank` database]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cockroach-workload.md %}#bank-workload), populated with some workload values.

Suppose that you create a materialized view on the `bank` table:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW overdrawn_accounts
  AS SELECT id, balance
  FROM bank
  WHERE balance < 0;
~~~

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> SELECT * FROM overdrawn_accounts;
~~~

~~~
  id  | balance
------+----------
    1 |  -17643
    3 |   -5928
   13 |   -3700
...
(402 rows)
~~~

Now suppose that you update the `balance` values of the `bank` table:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> UPDATE bank SET balance = 0 WHERE balance < 0;
~~~

~~~
UPDATE 402
~~~

The changes can be seen in the table with a simple `SELECT` statement against the table:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> SELECT id, balance
FROM bank
WHERE balance < 0;
~~~

~~~
  id | balance
-----+----------
(0 rows)
~~~


Recall that materialized views do not automatically update their stored results. Selecting from `overdrawn_accounts` returns stored results, which are outdated:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> SELECT * FROM overdrawn_accounts;
~~~

~~~
  id  | balance
------+----------
    1 |  -17643
    3 |   -5928
   13 |   -3700
...
(402 rows)
~~~

To update the materialized view's results, use a [`REFRESH`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/refresh.md %}) statement:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> REFRESH MATERIALIZED VIEW overdrawn_accounts;
~~~

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> SELECT * FROM overdrawn_accounts;
~~~

~~~
  id | balance
-----+----------
(0 rows)
~~~

## See also

- [Materialized views]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/views.md %}#materialized-views)
- [`CREATE VIEW`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/create-view.md %})
- [`SHOW TABLES`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/show-tables.md %})
- [`ALTER VIEW`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/alter-view.md %})
- [`DROP VIEW`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/drop-view.md %})

Commit message:

Document `AS OF SYSTEM TIME` for materialized views
Fixes DOC-12551

Summary of changes:

- Update 'REFRESH MATERIALIZED VIEW` page with `AS OF SYSTEM TIME`
  parameter row, new example section with `follower_read_timestamp()`
  and explicit timestamp usage, and more links.

- Update `CREATE VIEW` page with `AS OF SYSTEM TIME` parameter row,
  new example section, and more links.

- Update `AS OF SYSTEM TIME` page with `CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW` and
  `REFRESH MATERIALIZED VIEW`.

- Update 'Reusable views' page with brief mention and examples in
  the materialized views Usage section.

NB. These changes are ported to v25.2, v25.3, v25.4, and v26.1.

Co-Authored-By: roachdev-claude <roachdev-claude-bot@cockroachlabs.com>

src/current/v25.3/refresh.md, after:

---
title: REFRESH
summary: The REFRESH statement updates the stored query results of a materialized view.
toc: true
docs_area: reference.sql
---

Stored query results in [materialized view]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/views.md %}#materialized-views) are not automatically updated to reflect the latest state of the table(s) they query. The `REFRESH` [statement]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/sql-statements.md %}) updates the stored query results of a materialized view.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
CockroachDB does not support materialized views that are refreshed on [transaction commit]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/commit-transaction.md %}).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Required privileges

The user must be the [owner]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/alter-view.md %}) of the materialized view or have [admin]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/security-reference/authorization.md %}#admin-role) privileges.

## Synopsis

<div>
{% remote_include https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cockroachdb/generated-diagrams/{{ page.release_info.crdb_branch_name }}/grammar_svg/refresh_materialized_views.html %}
</div>

## Parameters

 Parameter | Description
-----------|-------------
`opt_concurrently` | `CONCURRENTLY` (Default behavior) This keyword has no effect. It is present for PostgreSQL compatibility. All materialized views are refreshed concurrently with other jobs.
`view_name` | The name of the materialized view to refresh.
`opt_clear_data` | `WITH DATA` (Default behavior) Refresh the stored query results. <br>`WITH NO DATA` Drop the query results of the materialized view from storage.
`AS OF SYSTEM TIME` | Use historical data when refreshing the view. The timestamp must be within the [garbage collection window]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/configure-replication-zones.md %}#gc-ttlseconds). This can reduce [contention]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/performance-best-practices-overview.md %}#transaction-contention) by leveraging [follower reads]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/follower-reads.md %}). For more information, see [`AS OF SYSTEM TIME`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/as-of-system-time.md %}).

## Examples

The following example uses the [sample `bank` database]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cockroach-workload.md %}#bank-workload), populated with some workload values.

Suppose that you create a materialized view on the `bank` table:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW overdrawn_accounts
  AS SELECT id, balance
  FROM bank
  WHERE balance < 0;
~~~

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> SELECT * FROM overdrawn_accounts;
~~~

~~~
  id  | balance
------+----------
    1 |  -17643
    3 |   -5928
   13 |   -3700
...
(402 rows)
~~~

Now suppose that you update the `balance` values of the `bank` table:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> UPDATE bank SET balance = 0 WHERE balance < 0;
~~~

~~~
UPDATE 402
~~~

The changes can be seen in the table with a simple `SELECT` statement against the table:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> SELECT id, balance
FROM bank
WHERE balance < 0;
~~~

~~~
  id | balance
-----+----------
(0 rows)
~~~


Recall that materialized views do not automatically update their stored results. Selecting from `overdrawn_accounts` returns stored results, which are outdated:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> SELECT * FROM overdrawn_accounts;
~~~

~~~
  id  | balance
------+----------
    1 |  -17643
    3 |   -5928
   13 |   -3700
...
(402 rows)
~~~

To update the materialized view's results, use a [`REFRESH`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/refresh.md %}) statement:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> REFRESH MATERIALIZED VIEW overdrawn_accounts;
~~~

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
> SELECT * FROM overdrawn_accounts;
~~~

~~~
  id | balance
-----+----------
(0 rows)
~~~

### Refresh a materialized view with historical data using `AS OF SYSTEM TIME`

You can refresh a materialized view using historical data with the [`AS OF SYSTEM TIME`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/as-of-system-time.md %}) clause. This is useful for reducing [contention]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/performance-best-practices-overview.md %}#transaction-contention) by performing a [follower read]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/follower-reads.md %}) when refreshing the view.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
Historical data is available only within the [garbage collection window]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/configure-replication-zones.md %}#gc-ttlseconds).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

Refresh a materialized view using [`follower_read_timestamp()`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/functions-and-operators.md %}#date-and-time-functions) to use the most recent data that is available for [follower reads]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/follower-reads.md %}):

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
REFRESH MATERIALIZED VIEW overdrawn_accounts
  AS OF SYSTEM TIME follower_read_timestamp();
~~~

You can also specify an explicit timestamp:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
REFRESH MATERIALIZED VIEW overdrawn_accounts
  AS OF SYSTEM TIME '-10s';
~~~

## See also

- [Materialized views]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/views.md %}#materialized-views)
- [`CREATE VIEW`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/create-view.md %})
- [`SHOW TABLES`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/show-tables.md %})
- [`ALTER VIEW`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/alter-view.md %})
- [`DROP VIEW`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/drop-view.md %})
- [`AS OF SYSTEM TIME`]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/as-of-system-time.md %})
- [Follower Reads]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/follower-reads.md %})
