## v24.3.3

Release Date: January 9, 2025

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v24-3-3-general-changes">General changes</h3>

- To improve the granularity of changefeed pipeline metrics, the changefeed metrics `changefeed.admit_latency` and `changefeed.commit_latency` have histogram buckets from `5ms` to `60m` (previously `500ms` to `5m`). The following changefeed metrics have histogram buckets from `5ms` to `10m` (previously `500ms` to `5m`): 
    - `changefeed.parallel_io_queue_nanos`
    - `changefeed.parallel_io_result_queue_nanos`
    - `changefeed.sink_batch_hist_nanos`
    - `changefeed.flush_hist_nanos`
    - `changefeed.kafka_throttling_hist_nanos`
- Added support for multiple seed brokers in the new Kafka sink.
- Added a new metric `distsender.rangefeed.catchup_ranges_waiting_client_side` that counts how many rangefeeds are waiting on the client-side limiter to start performing catchup scans.
- Added support for a new `AWS_USE_PATH_STYLE` parameter in S3 URI parsing.

<h3 id="v24-3-3-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- Added support for `SHOW TRIGGERS`, which displays the names of all triggers on a table, and whether each trigger is enabled. The user must have any privilege on the table, or be its owner.
- Added support for `SHOW CREATE TRIGGER`, which displays the CREATE statement for a trigger. The user must have any privilege on the table, or be its owner.
- The names of `BEFORE` triggers fired by a mutation are now included in the `EXPLAIN` output, with the trigger-function invocations also visible in the output of verbose `EXPLAIN`.
- `AFTER` triggers are now included in the output of `EXPLAIN` and `EXPLAIN ANALYZE`.
- Added the `legacy_varchar_typing` session setting, which reverts the changes of that causes the change in typing behavior described in. Specifically, it makes type-checking and overload resolution ignore the newly added "unpreferred" overloads. This setting defaults to `on`.

<h3 id="v24-3-3-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- Removed the `sql.auth.resolve_membership_single_scan.enabled` cluster setting. This was added out of precaution in case it was necessary to revert back to the old behavior for looking up role memberships, but this escape hatch has never been needed in practice since this was added in v23.1.
- Telemetry delivery is now considered successful even in cases of a network timeout. This will prevent throttling in cases outside an operator's control.
- When a schema change job is completed, rolls back, or encounters a failure, the time taken since the job began is now logged in a structured log in the `SQL_SCHEMA` log channel.
- Added a new configurable parameter `kv.transaction.max_intents_and_locks` that will prevent transactions from creating too many intents.
- Added the metric `txn.count_limit_rejected`, which tracks the KV transactions that have been aborted because they exceeded the max number of writes and locking reads allowed.
- Added the metric `txn.count_limit_on_response`, which tracks the number of KV transactions that have exceeded the count limit on a response.

<h3 id="v24-3-3-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- The link on the Plan Details page to the legacy Table page has been removed.

<h3 id="v24-3-3-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Previously, CockroachDB would encounter an internal error when evaluating `FETCH ABSOLUTE 0` statements, and this is now fixed. The bug has been present since v22.1.
- Fixed an issue where corrupted table statistics could cause the `cockroach` process to crash.
- A table that is participating in a logical replication stream can no longer be dropped. Previously this was allowed, which would cause all the replicated rows to end up in the dead-letter queue.
- `ALTER COLUMN SET NOT NULL` was not enforced consistently when the table was created in the same transaction.
- Fixed a bug where `CREATE RELATION / TYPE` could leave dangling namespace entries if the schema was concurrently being dropped.
- `security.certificate.*` metrics will now be updated if a node loads new certificates while running.
- The `idle_in_session_timeout` setting now excludes the time spent waiting for schema changer jobs to complete, preventing unintended session termination during schema change operations.
- Fixed a bug that causes the optimizer to use stale table statistics after altering an `ENUM` type used in the table.
- Changes the table, index contents of the hot ranges page in DB console.
- Table statistics collection in CockroachDB could previously run into `no bytes in account to release` errors in some edge cases (when the SQL memory budget, configured via `--max-sql-memory` flag, was close to being exhausted). The bug has been present since v21.2 and is now fixed.
- CockroachDB now better respects `statement_timeout` limit on queries involving the top K sort and merge join operations.
- Fixed an issue where license enforcement was not consistently disabled for single-node clusters started with `cockroach start-single-node`. The fix ensures proper behavior on cluster restarts.
- Fixed a bug that caused queries against tables with user-defined types to sometimes fail with errors after restoring those tables.
- Fixed a bug that causes an incorrect filesystem to be logged as part of the store information.
- Fixed a bug affecting uniqueness enforcement in regional by row tables when using read-committed isolation. The bug, introduced in v24.3.0, could cause internal errors or incorrect uniqueness enforcement in tables that had both non-unique and unique indexes when the region column was not part of the uniqueness constraints.
- Fixed a bug that has existed since v24.1 that would cause a set-returning UDF with `OUT` parameters to return a single row.
- Fixed an issue where adding an existing column with the `IF NOT EXISTS` option could exit too early, skipping necessary handling of the abstract syntax tree (AST). This could lead to failure of the `ALTER` statement.
- An issue where a schema change could incorrectly cause a changefeed to fail with an assertion error like `received boundary timestamp ... of type ... before reaching existing boundary of type ...` has now been fixed.
- Internal scans are now exempt from the `sql.defaults.disallow_full_table_scans.enabled` setting, allowing index creation even when the cluster setting is active.
- The `pg_catalog.pg_type` table no longer contains `NULL` values for the columns `typinput`, `typoutput`, `typreceive`, and `typsend`. `NULL` values were erroneously added for these columns for the `trigger` type in v24.3.0. This could cause unexpected errors with some client libraries.

<h3 id="v24-3-3-performance-improvements">Performance improvements</h3>

- Improved the internal caching logic for role membership information. This reduces the latency impact of commands such as `DROP ROLE`, `CREATE ROLE`, and `GRANT role TO user`, which cause the role membership cache to be invalidated.
