## v24.3.12

Release Date: April 30, 2025

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v24-3-12-general-changes">General changes</h3>

- CockroachDB v24.3.12 and subsequent v24.3 releases are eligible for [long term support (LTS)]({% link releases/release-support-policy.md %}#support-types).

<h3 id="v24-3-12-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- Added the `WITH IGNORE_FOREIGN_KEYS` option to `SHOW CREATE TABLE` which omits foreign key constraints from the output schema. This option is also allowed in `SHOW CREATE VIEW`, but has no effect. It cannot be combined with the `WITH REDACT` option.
- `EXPLAIN ANALYZE` statements now display the number of transaction retries and time spent retrying, if non-zero, in the plan output.
- A new `execution time` statistic is now reported on `EXPLAIN ANALYZE` output for most operators. Previously, this statistic was only available on the DistSQL diagrams in `EXPLAIN ANALYZE (DISTSQL)` output.

<h3 id="v24-3-12-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- Added the cluster setting `server.child_metrics.include_aggregate.enabled` (default: `true`) that controls the behavior of Prometheus child metrics reporting (`/_status/vars`). When set to `true`, child metrics include an aggregate time series, maintaining the existing behavior. When set to `false`, it stops reporting the aggregate time series, preventing double counting when querying metrics.
- The `sys.cpu.host.combined.percent-normalized` metric has been updated to include additional counters for more accurate host CPU measurement and to reduce underreporting. It now accounts for time spent processing hardware (`irq`) and software (`softirq`) interrupts, as well as `nice` time, which represents low-priority user-mode activity.
- The `server.client_cert_expiration_cache.capacity` cluster setting has been removed. The `security.certificate.expiration.client` and `security.certificate.ttl.client` metrics now report the lowest value observed for a user in the last 24 hours.
- SQL queries run on the source cluster by logical data replication (LDR) and physical cluster replication (PCR) will account to internal metrics like `sql.statements.active.internal` instead of the metrics like `sql.statements.active` that are used to monitor application workload.

<h3 id="v24-3-12-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug in client certificate expiration metrics, `security.certificate.expiration.client` and `security.certificate.ttl.client`.
- Fast failback could succeed even if the standby cluster protected timestamp had been removed, causing the reverse physical cluster replication (PCR) stream to enter a crashing loop. This patch ensures the failback command fast fails.
- Fixed a bug that caused changefeeds to fail on startup when scanning a single key.
- MVCC garbage collection is now fully subject to IO admission control. Previously, it was possible for MVCC GC to cause store overload (such as LSM inversion) when a large amount of data would become eligible for garbage collection. Should any issues arise from subjecting MVCC GC to admission control, the `kv.mvcc_gc.queue_kv_admission_control.enabled` cluster setting can be set to `false` to restore the previous behavior.
- Fixed a bug where calling a stored procedure could drop the procedure if it had `OUT` parameters that were not used by the calling routine. This bug had existed since PL/pgSQL `CALL` statements were introduced in v24.1.
- Fixed a bug where CockroachDB would encounter an internal error when decoding the gists of plans with `CALL` statements. The bug had been present since v23.2.
- The reader virtual cluster now starts if the user begins a physical cluster replication (PCR) stream from a cursor via `ALTER VIRTUAL CLUSTER virtual_cluster START REPLICATION OF virtual_cluster ON pgurl_physical_cluster WITH READ VIRTUAL CLUSTER`.
- Fixed a crash due to "use of enum metadata before hydration" when using logical data replication (LDR) with user-defined types (UDTs).
- Fixed a potential deadlock that could occur during client certificate updates while metrics were being collected. This issue affected the reliability of certificate expiration reporting.
- Fixed a bug in v24.1.14, v24.3.7, v24.3.8, and v25.1 that could cause a nil-pointer error when a column's default expression contained a volatile expression (like `nextval`) as a UDF argument.
- Previously, the fields `maximum memory usage` and `max sql temp disk usage` in the `EXPLAIN ANALYZE` output could be under-reported for distributed plans when memory-intensive operations were fully performed on the remote nodes. This is now fixed. The bug existed in v22.1 and later.
- The `ALTER VIRTUAL CLUSTER SET REPLICATION READ VIRTUAL CLUSTER` syntax is now supported for adding a reader virtual cluster for an existing PCR standby.
- Previously, whenever CockroachDB collected a statement bundle when plan-gist-based matching was used, `plan.txt` would be incomplete. This is now fixed. The bug had been present since the introduction of plan-gist-based matching in v23.1, and was partially addressed in v24.2.
- Fixed a bug where CockroachDB could encounter a `cannot specify timestamp older than ...` error during table statistics collection in some cases (e.g., when the cluster is overloaded). The bug was present since v19.1.
- Fixed a bug that could cause a stack overflow during execution of a prepared statement that invoked a PL/pgSQL routine with a loop. The bug existed in versions v23.2.22, v24.1.15, v24.3.9, v25.1.2, v25.1.3, and pre-release versions of v25.2 prior to v25.2.0-alpha.3.
- Fixed a rare corruption bug that impacts `IMPORT` and materialized views.
