## v24.3.7

Release Date: March 6, 2025

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v24-3-7-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- Added support for a new index hint, `AVOID_FULL_SCAN`, which will prevent the optimizer from planning a full scan for the specified table if any other plan is possible. The hint can be used in the same way as other existing index hints. For example, `SELECT * FROM table_name@{AVOID_FULL_SCAN};`. This hint is similar to `NO_FULL_SCAN`, but will not error if a full scan cannot be avoided. Note that a full scan of a partial index would not normally be considered a "full scan" for the purposes of the `AVOID_FULL_SCAN` and `NO_FULL_SCAN` hints, but if the user has explicitly forced the partial index via `FORCE_INDEX=index_name`, it is considered a full scan.
 [#140255][#140255] [#140998][#140998]
- Added the `optimizer_prefer_bounded_cardinality` session setting, which instructs the optimizer to prefer query plans where every expression has a guaranteed upper-bound on the number of rows it will process. This may help the optimizer produce better query plans in some cases. This setting is disabled by default.
 [#140255][#140255] [#140998][#140998]
- Added the `optimizer_check_input_min_row_count` session setting to control the minimum row count estimate for buffer scans of foreign key and uniqueness checks. It defaults to `0`.
 [#141375][#141375]
- Since v23.2, table statistics histograms have been collected for non-indexed JSON columns. Histograms are no longer collected for these columns if the `sql.stats.non_indexed_json_histograms.enabled` cluster setting is set to `false`. This reduces memory usage during table statistics collection, for both automatic and manual collection via `ANALYZE` and `CREATE STATISTICS`.
 [#139897][#139897] [#140998][#140998]
- Fixed a bug that could cause unexpected errors with SQL `VALUES` clauses that contain function calls with multiple overloads. This bug existed only in pre-release versions of v25.1.
 [#140646][#140646]
- Added the `optimizer_min_row_count` session setting. This setting sets a lower bound on row count estimates for relational expressions during query planning. A value of `0` (default) indicates no lower bound. If set to a value greater than `0`, a row count of zero can still be estimated for expressions with a cardinality of zero, e.g., for a contradictory filter. Setting this to a value greater than `0`, such as `1`, may yield better query plans in some cases, such as when statistics are frequently stale and inaccurate.
 [#140255][#140255] [#140998][#140998]  

<h3 id="v24-3-7-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- Reduced noise in dynamically provisioned logging sinks by logging flush errors at most once per minute.
 [#139643][#139643]
- The `cockroach node decommission` CLI command now waits until the target node is drained before marking it as fully decommissioned. Previously, it would start the drain but not wait, leaving the target node briefly in a state where it would be unable to communicate with the cluster but would still accept client requests (which would then hang or hit unexpected errors).
 [#139556][#139556]

<h3 id="v24-3-7-command-line-changes">Command-line changes</h3>

- Improved the performance of the `cockroachd debug zip` command when retrieving data from `crdb_internal.transaction_contention_events`, reducing the likelihood of `memory budget exceeded` or `query execution canceled due to statement timeout` errors.
 [#139754][#139754]

<h3 id="v24-3-7-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Previously, in changefeeds using CDC queries and the Parquet format, the output would include duplicate columns when it contained a user-defined primary key. Now, the columns are de-duplicated columns in the output when writing to Parquet.
 [#140153][#140153]
- Fixed a bug where dropping a table with a trigger using the legacy schema changer could leave an orphaned reference in the descriptor. This occurred when two tables were dependent on each other via a trigger, and the table containing the trigger was dropped.
 [#141179][#141179]
- Fixed a bug that could cause `SHOW TABLES` and other introspection operations to encounter a `"batch timestamp must be after replica GC threshold"` error.
 [#140284][#140284]
- The Data Distribution and Zone Configs report on the DB Console Advanced Debug page will no longer crash if there are `NULL` values for the `raw_sql_config` column in the `crdb_internal.zones` table.
 [#140661][#140661]
- Fixed possible index corruption caused by triggers that could occur when the following conditions were satisfied:
  1. A query calls a user-defined function (UDF) or stored procedure, and also performs a mutation
     on a table.
  2. The UDF/stored procedure contains a statement that either fires an `AFTER` trigger, or
     fires a cascade that itself fires a trigger.
  3. The trigger modifies the same row as the outer statement.
  4. Either the outer or inner mutation is something other than an `INSERT`
     without an `ON CONFLICT` clause.
 [#138361][#138361]
- Fixed a bug where activating statement diagnostics sometimes appeared unresponsive, with no state or status update. The status now always indicates whether diagnostics are active or a statement bundle is available for download.
 [#139585][#139585]
- Fixed a memory leak that could previously occur when evaluating some memory-intensive queries via the vectorized engine in CockroachDB. The leak had been present since v20.2.
 [#139095][#139095]
- Fixed a bug that could cause `SHOW TABLES` and other introspection operations to encounter a `"batch timestamp must be after replica GC threshold"` error.
 [#140084][#140084]
- Fixed a bug in the `kafka_sink_config` option for changefeeds where users were previously unable to set negative GZIP compression levels. Users can now configure the `CompressionLevel` field in the range of `[-2, 9]` where `-2` enables Huffman encoding and `-1` sets the default compression.
 [#141037][#141037]
- Fixed a bug that would cause an internal error when the result of a `RECORD`-returning user-defined function (UDF) was wrapped by another expression (such as `COALESCE`) within a `VALUES` clause.
 [#140646][#140646]
- Fixed a rare bug in which a query could fail with the error `could not find computed column expression for column in table` while dropping a virtual computed column from a table. This bug was introduced in v23.2.4.
 [#139833][#139833]


[#139897]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/139897
[#139643]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/139643
[#140153]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/140153
[#138361]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/138361
[#141179]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/141179
[#140284]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/140284
[#140998]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/140998
[#140255]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/140255
[#140646]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/140646
[#140661]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/140661
[#139585]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/139585
[#139095]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/139095
[#140084]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/140084
[#141037]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/141037
[#141375]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/141375
[#139556]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/139556
[#139754]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/139754
[#139833]: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/139833
