## v24.3.5

Release Date: February 6, 2025

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v24-3-5-general-changes">General changes</h3>

- The protected timestamp records of running changefeeds are now updated when the set of targets changes, such as when system tables are added to the protected tables list.

<h3 id="v24-3-5-backward-incompatible-changes">Backward-incompatible changes</h3>

- In [v24.3.4](#v24-3-4-bug-fixes), a bug was fixed that could cause `SHOW TABLES` and other introspection operations to encounter a `"batch timestamp ... must be after replica GC threshold"` error. This fix is **not** present in v24.3.5, but has been released in [v24.3.6](#v24-3-6).

<h3 id="v24-3-5-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

- Since v23.2 table statistics histograms have been collected for non-indexed JSON columns. Histograms are no longer collected for these columns if the `sql.stats.non_indexed_json_histograms.enabled` cluster setting is set to `false`. This reduces memory usage during table statistics collection, for both automatic and manual collection via `ANALYZE` and `CREATE STATISTICS`.
- Added support for a new index hint, `AVOID_FULL_SCAN`, which will prevent the optimizer from planning a full scan for the specified table if any other plan is possible. The hint can be used in the same way as other existing index hints. For example, `SELECT * FROM table_name@{AVOID_FULL_SCAN};`. This hint is similar to `NO_FULL_SCAN`, but will not error if a full scan cannot be avoided. Note that normally a full scan of a partial index would not be considered a "full scan" for the purposes of the `NO_FULL_SCAN` and `AVOID_FULL_SCAN` hints, but if the user has explicitly forced the partial index via `FORCE_INDEX=index_name`, CockroachDB does consider it a full scan.
- Added the `optimizer_prefer_bounded_cardinality` session setting, which instructs the optimizer to prefer query plans where every expression has a guaranteed upper-bound on the number of rows it will process. This may help the optimizer produce better query plans in some cases. This setting is disabled by default.
- Added the `optimizer_min_row_count` session setting, which sets a lower bound on row count estimates for relational expressions during query planning. A value of zero, which is the default, indicates no lower bound. Note that if this is set to a value greater than zero, a row count of zero can still be estimated for expressions with a cardinality of zero, e.g., for a contradictory filter. Setting this to a value higher than `0`, such as `1`, may yield better query plans in some cases, such as when statistics are frequently stale and inaccurate.

<h3 id="v24-3-5-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- Schema object identifiers (e.g., database names, schema names, table names, and function names) are no longer redacted when logging statements in the `EXEC` or `SQL_SCHEMA` channels.  If redaction of these names is required, then the new cluster setting `sql.log.redact_names.enabled` can be set to `true`. The default value of the setting is `false`.
- Schema object identifiers (e.g., table names, schema names, function names, and type names) are no longer redacted in the `SQL_SCHEMA` log channel.
- Added the metric `sql.schema_changer.object_count`, which counts the number of objects in the cluster.
- The `changefeed.max_behind_nanos` metric now supports scoping with metrics labels.

<h3 id="v24-3-5-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

- Added the `/debug/pprof/fgprof` endpoint to capture off-CPU stack traces. Use of this endpoint will have a noticable impact to performance while the endpoint is being triggered.

<h3 id="v24-3-5-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- `CLOSE CURSOR` statements are now allowed in read-only transactions, similar to PostgreSQL. The bug had been present since at least v23.1.
- `ALTER BACKUP SCHEDULE` no longer fails on schedules whose collection URI contains a space.
- Previously, `SHOW CREATE TABLE` was showing incorrect data for inverted indexes. It now shows the correct data that can be input to CockroachDB to recreate the same table.
- Fixed a timing issue between `ALTER VIEW .. RENAME` and `DROP VIEW` that caused repeated failures in the `DROP VIEW` job.
- Fixed a bug where querying the `pg_catalog.pg_constraint` table while the schema changer was dropping a constraint could result in a query error.
- On the **Databases** page, users should no longer see console errors when visiting the **Databases** page directly after node/SQL pod startup.
- In the **Databases** > **Tables** page, the `CREATE` statement will now show up as expected for tables with custom schema names.
- Queries that perform a cast from the string representation of an array containing `GEOMETRY` or `GEOGRAPHY` types to a SQL `ARRAY` type will now succeed.
- Previously, cluster backups taken in a multi-region cluster that had configured the system database with a region configuration could not be restored into a non-multi-region cluster. This is now fixed.
- Fixed a bug that disregarded tuple labels in some cases. This could cause unexpected behavior, such as when converting a tuple to JSON with `to_jsonb`. See #136167 for more details. The incorrect removal of tuple labels bug was introduced in v22.1.0, and changes in v24.3.0 made unexpected behavior due to the bug more likely.
- Previously, CockroachDB could encounter an internal error `comparison of two different versions of enum` in some cases when a user-defined type was modified within a transaction and the following statements read the column of that user-defined type. The bug was introduced in v24.2 and is now fixed.
- Secondary tenants will no longer fatal when issuing HTTP requests during tenant startup.
- Fixed a bug where columns created with `GENERATED ... AS IDENTITY` with the `SERIAL` type could incorrectly fail internal validations.
- When the session variable `allow_role_memberships_to_change_during_transaction` is set, it is now possible to create and drop users quickly even when there are contending transactions on the `system.users` and `system.role_options` system tables.
- Fixed a bug where the error `batch timestamp ... must be after replica GC threshold` could occur during a schema change backfill operation, and cause the schema change job to retry infinitely. Now this error is treated as permanent, and will cause the job to enter the `failed` state.
- Fixed a bug that prevented the `CREATE` statement for a routine from being shown in a statement bundle. This happened when the routine was created on a schema other than `public`. The bug had existed since v23.1.
